Tyndale: William Tyndale Bible (1525/1530)

== Genesis 1 ==
1. In the begynnynge God created heaven and erth.
2. The erth was voyde and emptie ad darcknesse was vpon the depe and the spirite of god moved vpon the water
3. Than God sayd: let there be lyghte and there was lyghte.
4. And God sawe the lyghte that it was good: and devyded the lyghte from the darcknesse
5. and called the lyghte daye and the darcknesse nyghte: and so of the evenynge and mornynge was made the fyrst daye
6. And God sayd: let there be a fyrmament betwene the waters ad let it devyde the waters a sonder.
7. Than God made the fyrmament and parted the waters which were vnder the fyrmament from the waters that were above the fyrmament: And it was so.
8. And God called the fyrmament heaven And so of the evenynge and morninge was made the seconde daye
9. And God sayd let the waters that are vnder heaven gather them selves vnto one place that the drye londe may appere: And it came so to passe.
10. And god called the drye lande the erth and the gatheringe togyther of waters called he the see. And God sawe that it was good
11. And God sayd: let the erth bringe forth herbe and grasse that sowe seed and frutefull trees that bere frute every one in his kynde havynge their seed in them selves vpon the erth. And it came so to passe:
12. ad the erth brought forth herbe and grasse sowenge seed every one in his kynde and trees berynge frute and havynge their seed in the selves every one in his kynde. And God sawe that it was good:
13. and the of the evenynge and mornynge was made the thyrde daye.
14. Than sayd God: let there be lyghtes in ye firmament of heaven to devyde the daye fro the nyghte that they may be vnto sygnes seasons days and yeares.
15. And let them be lyghtes in the fyrmament of heave to shyne vpon the erth. and so it was.
16. And God made two great lyghtes A greater lyghte to rule the daye and a lesse lyghte to rule the nyghte and he made sterres also.
17. And God put them in the fyrmament of heaven to shyne vpon the erth
18. and to rule the daye and the nyghte ad to devyde the lyghte from darcknesse. And god sawe yt it was good:
19. and so of the evenynge ad mornynge was made the fourth daye.
20. And God sayd let the water bryng forth creatures that move and have lyfe and foules for to flee over the erth vnder the fyrmament of heaven.
21. And God created greate whalles and all maner of creatures that lyve and moue which the waters brought forth in their kindes ad all maner of federed foules in their kyndes. And God sawe that it was good:
22. and God blessed them saynge. Growe and multiplye ad fyll the waters of the sees and let the foules multiplye vpo the erth.
23. And so of the evenynge and morninge was made the fyfth daye.
24. And God sayd: leth the erth bring forth lyvynge creatures in thir kyndes: catell and wormes and beastes of the erth in their kyndes and so it came to passe.
25. And god made the beastes of the erth in their kyndes and catell in their kyndes ad all maner wormes of the erth in their kyndes: and God sawe that it was good.
26. And God sayd: let vs make man in oure symilitude ad after oure lycknesse: that he may have rule over the fysh of the see and over the foules of the ayre and over catell and over all the erth and over all wormes that crepe on the erth.
27. And God created man after hys lycknesse after the lycknesse of god created he him: male and female created he them.
28. And God blessed them and God sayd vnto them. Growe and multiplye and fyll the erth and subdue it and have domynyon over the fysh of the see and over the foules of the ayre and over all the beastes that move on the erth.
29. And God sayd: se I have geven yow all herbes that sowe seed which are on all the erth and all maner trees that haue frute in them and sowe seed: to be meate for yow
30. and for all beastes of the erth and vnto all foules of the ayre and vnto all that crepeth on the erth where in is lyfe that they may haue all maner herbes and grasse for to eate and even so it was.
31. And God behelde al that he had made ad loo they were exceadynge good: and so of the evenynge and mornynge was made the syxth daye

== Genesis 2 ==
1. Thus was heave and erth fynished wyth all their apparell:
2. ad i ye seueth daye god ended hys worke which he had made and rested in ye seventh daye fro all his workes which he had made.
3. And God blessed ye seventh daye and sanctyfyed it for in it he rested from all his workes which he had created and made.
4. These are the generations of heaven and erth when they were created in the tyme when the LORde God created heaven and erth
5. and all the shrubbes of the felde be fore they were in the erthe. And all the herbes of the felde before they sprange: for the LORde God had yet sent no rayne vpon the erth nether was there yet any man to tylle the erth.
6. But there arose a myste out of the ground and watered all the face of the erth:
7. Then the LORde God shope man even of the moulde of the erth and brethed into his face the breth of lyfe. So man was made a lyvynge soule.
8. The LORde God also planted a garden in Eden from the begynnynge and there he sette man whom he had formed.
9. And the LORde God made to sprynge out of the erth all maner trees bewtyfull to the syghte and pleasant to eate and the tree of lyfe in the middes of the garden: and also the tree of knowlege of good and euell.
10. And there spronge a rever out of Eden to water the garden and thence devided it selfe and grewe in to foure principall waters.
11. The name of the one is Phison he it is that compasseth all the lande of heuila where gold groweth.
12. And the gold of that contre ys precious there is found bedellion and a stone called Onix.
13. The name of the seconde ryver is Gihon which compassyth all the lande of Inde.
14. And the name of the thyrde river is Hidekell which runneth on the easte syde of the assyryans And the fourth river is Euphrates.
15. And the LORde God toke Adam and put him in the garden of Eden to dresse it and to kepe it:
16. and the LORde God comaunded Ada saynge: of all the trees of the garde se thou eate.
17. But of the tre of knowlege of good and badd se that thou eate not: for even ye same daye thou eatest of it thou shalt surely dye.
18. And the LORde God sayd: it is not good that man shulde be alone I will make hym an helper to beare him company:
19. And after yt the LORde God had make of the erth all maner beastes of the felde and all maner foules of the ayre he brought them vnto Adam to see what he wold call them. And as Ada called all maner livynge beastes: eve so are their names.
20. And Adam gave names vnto all maner catell and vnto the foules of the ayre and vnto all maner beastes of the felde. But there was no helpe founde vnto Adam to beare him companye
21. Then the LORde God cast a slomber on Adam and he slepte. And then he toke out one of his rybbes and in stede ther of he fylled vp the place with flesh.
22. And the LORde God made of the rybbe which he toke out of Adam a woma and brought her vnto Adam.
23. Then sayd Ada this is once bone of my boones and flesh of my flesh. This shall be called woman: because she was take of the man.
24. For this cause shall a man leve father and mother and cleve vnto his wyfe and they shall be one flesh.
25. And they were ether of them naked both Adam and hys wyfe ad were not ashamed:

== Genesis 3 ==
1. But the serpent was sotyller than all the beastes of the felde which ye LORde God had made and sayd vnto the woman. Ah syr that God hath sayd ye shall not eate of all maner trees in the garden.
2. And the woman sayd vnto the serpent of the frute of the trees in the garden we may eate
3. but of the frute of the tree yt is in the myddes of the garden (sayd God) se that ye eate not and se that ye touch it not: lest ye dye.
4. Then sayd the serpent vnto the woman: tush ye shall not dye:
5. But God doth knowe that whensoever ye shulde eate of it youre eyes shuld be opened and ye shulde be as God and knowe both good and evell.
6. And the woman sawe that it was a good tree to eate of and lustie vnto the eyes and a pleasant tre for to make wyse. And toke of the frute of it and ate and gaue vnto hir husband also with her and he ate.
7. And the eyes of both them were opened that they vnderstode how that they were naked. Than they sowed fygge leves togedder and made them apurns.
8. And they herd the voyce of the LORde God as he walked in the garde in the coole of the daye. And Adam hyd hymselfe and his wyfe also from the face of the LORde God amonge the trees of the garden.
9. And the LORde God called Adam and sayd vnto him where art thou?
10. And he answered. Thy voyce I harde in the garden but I was afrayd because I was naked and therfore hyd myselfe.
11. And he sayd: who told the that thou wast naked? hast thou eaten of the tree of which I bade the that thou shuldest not eate?
12. And Adam answered. The woman which thou gavest to bere me company she toke me of the tree ad I ate.
13. And the LORde God sayd vnto the woman: wherfore didest thou so? And the woman answered the serpent deceaved me and I ate.
14. And the LORde God sayd vnto the serpet because thou haste so done moste cursed be thou of all catell and of all beastes of the feld: vppo thy bely shalt thou goo: and erth shalt thou eate all dayes of thy lyfe.
15. Morover I will put hatred betwene the and the woman and betwene thy seed and hyr seed. And that seed shall tread the on the heed ad thou shalt tread hit on the hele.
16. And vnto the woman he sayd: I will suerly encrease thy sorow ad make the oft with child and with payne shalt thou be deleverd: And thy lustes shall pertayne vnto thy husbond and he shall rule the.
17. And vnto Ada he sayd: for as moch as thou hast obeyed the voyce of thy wyfe and hast eaten of the tree of which I commaunded the saynge: se thou eate not therof: cursed be the erth for thy sake. In sorow shalt thou eate therof all dayes of thy lyfe
18. And it shall beare thornes ad thystels vnto the. And thou shalt eate the herbes of ye feld:
19. In the swete of thy face shalt thou eate brede vntill thou returne vnto the erth whece thou wast take: for erth thou art ad vnto erth shalt thou returne.
20. And Ada called his wyfe Heua because she was the mother of all that lyveth
21. And the LORde God made Adam and hys wyfe garmentes of skynnes and put them on them.
22. And the LORde God sayd: loo Adam is become as it were one of vs in knowlege of good and evell. But now lest he strech forth his hand and take also of the tree of lyfe and eate and lyve ever.
23. And the LORde God cast him out of the garden of Eden to tylle the erth whece he was taken.
24. And he cast Ada out and sette at ye enteringe of the garden Eden Cherubin with a naked swerde movinge in and out to kepe the way to the tree of lyfe.

== Genesis 4 ==
1. And Adam lay wyth Heua ys wyfe which conceaved and bare Cain and sayd: I haue goten a ma of the LORde.
2. And she proceded forth and bare hys brother Abell: And Abell became a sheperde And Cain became a ploweman.
3. And it fortuned in processe of tyme that Cain brought of the frute of the erth: an offerynge vnto the LORde.
4. And Abell he brought also of the fyrstlynges of hys shepe and of the fatt of them. And the LORde loked vnto Abell and to his offeynge:
5. but vnto Cain and vnto his offrynge looked he not. And Cain was wroth exceadingly and loured.
6. And the LORde sayd vnto Cain: why art thou angry and why loureste thou? Wotest thou not yf thou dost well thou shalt receave it?
7. But and yf thou dost evell by and by thy synne lyeth open in the dore. Not withstondyng let it be subdued vnto the ad see thou rule it.
8. And Cain talked wyth Abell his brother.And as soone as they were in the feldes Cain fell vppon Abell his brother and slewe hym
9. And ye LORde sayd vnto Cain: where is Abell thy brother? And he sayd: I can not tell am I my brothers keper?
10. And he sayd: What hast thou done? the voyce of thy brothers bloud cryeth vnto me out of the erth.
11. And now cursed be thou as pertaynyng to the erth which opened hyr mouth to receaue thy brothers bloud of thyne hande.
12. For when thou tyllest the grounde she shall heceforth not geve hyr power vnto the. A vagabunde and a rennagate shalt thou be vpon the erth.
13. And Cain sayd vnto the LORde: my synne is greater then that it may be forgeven.
14. Beholde thou castest me out thys day from of the face of the erth and fro thy syghte must I hyde my selfe ad I must be wandrynge and a vagabunde vpon the erth: Morover whosoever fyndeth me wyll kyll me,
15. And the LORde sayd vnto hi Not so but whosoever sleyth Cain shalbe punyshed.vij. folde. And ye LORde put a marke vpo Cain that no ma yt founde hym shulde kyll hym.
16. And Cain went out fro the face of the LORde and dwelt in the lande Nod on the east syde of Eden.
17. And Cain laye wyth hys wyfe which conceaved and bare Henoch. And he was buyldinge a cyte and called the name of it after the name of hys sonne Henoch.
18. And Henoch begat Irad. And Irad begat Mahuiael. And Mahuiael begat Mathusael. And Mathusael begat Lamech.
19. And Lamech toke hym two wyves: the one was called Ada and the other Zilla.
20. And Ada bare Iabal of whome came they that dwell in tentes ad possesse catell.
21. And hys brothers name was Iubal: of hym came all that excercyse them selves on the harpe and on the organs
22. And Zilla she also bare Tubalcain a worker in metall and a father of all that grave in brasse and yeron. And Tubalcains syster was called Naema.
23. Then sayd Lamech vnto hys wyves Ada ad Zilla: heare my voyce ye wyves of Lamech and herken vnto my wordes for I haue slayne a man and wounded my selfe and haue slayn a yongman and gotte my selfe strypes:
24. For Cain shall be avenged sevenfolde: but Lamech seventie tymes sevenfolde.
25. Adam also laye with hys wyfe yet agayne and she bare a sonne ad called hys name Seth For god (sayd she) hath geven me a nother sonne For Abell whom Cain slewe.
26. And Seth begat a sonne and called hys name Enos. And in that tyme began men to call on the name of the LORde.

== Genesis 5 ==
1. Thys is the boke of the generacion of man In the daye when God created man and made hym after the symilytude of god
2. Male and female made he the and called their names man in the daye when they were created.
3. And when Adam was an hundred and thyrty yere old he begat a sonne after hys lycknesse and symilytude: and called hys name Seth.
4. And the dayes of Adam after he begat Seth were eyght hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
5. and all the dayes of Adam which he lyved were.ix. hundred and.xxx. yere and then he dyed.
6. And Seth lyved an hundred and.v. yeres and begat Enos.
7. And after he had begot Enos he lyved.viij. hundred and.vij. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
8. And all the dayes of Seth were.ix. hundred and.xij. yere and dyed.
9. And Enos lyved.lxxxx. yere and begat kenan.
10. And Enos after he begat kenan lyved viij. hundred and.xv. yere and begat sonnes and doughters:
11. and all the dayes of Enos were.ix hundred and.v. yere and than he dyed.
12. And kenan lyued.lxx. yere and begat Mahalaliel.
13. And kenan after he had begot Mahalaliel lyved.viij. hundred and.xl. yere and begat sonnes and doughters:
14. and al the dayes of kenan were.ix. hundred and.x. yere and than he dyed.
15. And Mahalaliel lyued.lxv. yere and begat Iared.
16. And Mahalaliel after he had begot Iared lyved.viij. hundred and.xxx. yere and begat sonnes and doughters:
17. and all the dayes of Mahalalyell were.viij. hundred nynetye and.v. yeare and than he dyed
18. And Iared lyved an hundred and.lxij. yere and begat Henoch:
19. and Iared lyved after he begat Henoch.viij. hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
20. And all the dayes of Iared were.ix. hundred and.lxij. yere and than he dyed.
21. And Henoch lyved.lxv. yere ad begat Mathusala.
22. And Henoch walked wyth god after he had begot Mathusala.iij. hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
23. And all the dayes of Henoch were.iij. hundred and.lxv. yere.
24. and than Henoch lyved a godly lyfe and was nomore sene for God toke hym away.
25. And Mathusala lyved an hundred and lxxxvij. yere and begat Lamech:
26. and Mathusala after he had begot Lamech lyved.vij. hundred and.lxxxij. yere ad begat sonnes and doughters.
27. And all the dayes of Methusala were.ix. hundred.lxix yere and than he dyed.
28. And Lamech lyved an hundred.lxxxij. yere and begat a sonne
29. and called hym Noe sayng. This same shall comforte vs: as concernynge oure worke and sorowe of oure handes which we haue aboute the erthe that the LORde hath cursed.
30. And Lamech lyved after he had begot Noe v. hundred nynetie and.v. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
31. And all the dayes of Lamech were.vij. hundred.lxxvij. yere and than he dyed.
32. And when Noe was.v. hundred yere olde he begat Sem Ham and Iaphet.

== Genesis 6 ==
1. And it came to passe wha men bega to multiplye apo the erth ad had begot them doughters
2. the sonnes of God sawe the doughters of men that they were fayre and toke vnto them wyves which they best liked amoge the all.
3. And the LORd sayd: My spirite shall not allwaye stryve withe man for they are flesh. Nevertheles I wyll geue them yet space and hundred and.xx. yeres
4. There were tirantes in the world in thos dayes. For after that the children of God had gone in vnto the doughters of men and had begotten them childern the same childern were the mightiest of the world and men of renowne
5. And whan the LORde sawe yt the wekednesse of man was encreased apon the erth and that all the ymaginacion and toughtes of his hert was only evell continually
6. he repented that he had made man apon the erth and sorowed in his hert.
7. And sayd: I wyll destroy mankynde which I haue made fro of the face of the erth: both man beast worme and foule of the ayre for it repeteth me that I haue made them.
8. But yet Noe found grace in the syghte of the LORde.
9. These are the generatios of Noe. Noe was a righteous man and vncorrupte in his tyme and walked wyth god.
10. And Noe begat.iij. sonnes: Sem Ham and Iapheth.
11. And the erth was corrupte in the syghte of god and was full of mischefe.
12. And God loked vpon the erth ad loo it was corrupte: for all flesh had corrupte his way vppon the erth.
13. Than sayd God to Noe: the end of all flesh is come before me for the erth is full of there myschefe. And loo I wyll destroy them with the erth.
14. Make the an arcke of pyne tree and make chaumbers in the arcke and pytch it wythin and wythout wyth pytch.
15. And of this facion shalt thou make it.The lenth of the arcke shall be.iij. hundred cubytes ad the bredth of it.l. cubytes and the heyth of it.xxx. cubytes.
16. A wyndow shalt thou make aboue in the arcke. And wythin a cubyte compasse shalt thou finysh it.And the dore of the arcke shalt thou sette in ye syde of it: and thou shalt make it with.iij loftes one aboue an other.
17. For behold I wil bringe in a floud of water apon the erth to destroy all flesh from vnder heaven wherin breth of life is so that all that is in the erth shall perish.
18. But I will make myne apoyntement with the that both thou shalt come in to ye arcke and thy sonnes thy wyfe and thy sonnes wyves with the.
19. And of all that lyveth what soever flesh it be shalt thou brynge in to the arcke of every thynge a payre to kepe them a lyve wyth the. And male and female
20. se that they be of byrdes in their kynde and of beastes in their kynde and of all maner of wormes of the erth in their kinde: a payre of every thinge shall come vnto the to kepe them a lyve.
21. And take vnto the of all maner of meate yt may be eaten and laye it vp in stoore by the that it may be meate both for ye and for the:
22. and Noe dyd acordynge to all that God commaunded hym.

== Genesis 7 ==
1. And the LORde sayd vnto Noe: goo in to the arcke both thou and all thy houssold. For the haue I sene rightuous before me in thys generacion.
2. Of all clene beastes take vnto the.vij. of every kynde the male and hys female And of vnclene beastes a payre the male and hys female:
3. lykewyse of the byrdes of the ayre vij. of every kynde male and female to save seed vppon all the erth.
4. For.vij. dayes hence wyll I send rayne vppo the erth.xl. dayes and.xl. nyghtes and wyll dystroy all maner of thynges that I haue made from of the face of the erth..
5. And Noe dyd acordynge to all yt the lorde comaunded hym:
6. and Noe was.vi. hundred yere olde when the floud of water came vppon the erth:
7. and Noe went and his sonnes and his wyfe and his sonnes wyves wyth hym in to the arke from the waters of the floud.
8. And of clene beastes and of beastes that ware vnclene and of byrdes and of all that crepeth vppo the erth
9. came in by cooples of every kynde vnto Noe in to the arke: a male and a female: even as God commaunded Noe.
10. And the seventh daye the waters of the floud came vppon the erth.
11. In the.vi. hundred yere of Noes lyfe in the secode moneth in the.xvij daye of the moneth yt same daye were all the founteynes of the grete depe broken vp and the wyndowes of heave were opened
12. ad there fell a rayne vpon the erth.xl. dayes and.xl. nyghtes.
13. And the selfe same daye went Noe Sem Ham and Iapheth Noes sonnes and Noes wyfe and the.iij. wyues of his sonnes wyth them in to the arke:
14. both they and all maner of beastes in their kide and all maner of catell in their kynde and all maner of wormes that crepe vppon the erth in their kynde and all maner of byrdes in there kynde. and all maner off foules what soever had feders.
15. And they came vnto Noe in to the arke by cooples of all flesh yt had breth of lyfe in it.
16. And they that came came male ad female of every flesh acordige as God comaunded hym: and ye LORde shytt the dore vppo him
17. And the floud came.xl. dayes and.xl. nyghtes vppon the erth and the water increased and bare vp the arcke ad it was lifte vp from of the erth
18. And the water prevayled and increased exceadingly vppon the erth: and the arke went vppo he toppe of the waters.
19. And the waters prevayled excedingly above mesure vppo the erth so that all the hye hylles which are vnder all the partes of heaven were covered:
20. eve.xv. cubytes hye prevayled the waters so that the hylles were covered.
21. And all fleshe that moved on the erth bothe birdes catell and beastes perisshed with al that crepte on the erth and all men:
22. so that all that had the breth of liffe in the nostrels of it thorow out all that was on drye lond dyed.
23. Thus was destroyed all that was vppo the erth both man beastes wormes and foules of the ayre so that they were destroyed from the erth: save Noe was reserved only and they that were wyth hym in the arke.
24. And the waters prevayled vppon the erth an hundred and fyftye dayes.

== Genesis 8 ==
1. And god remebred Noe and all ye beastes and all ye catell yt were with hi in ye arke And god made a wynde to blow vppo ye erth and ye waters ceased:
2. ad ye fountaynes of the depe ad the wyndowes of heave were stopte and the rayne of heaven was forbidde
3. and the waters returned from of ye erth ad abated after the ende of an hundred and.l. dayes.
4. And the arke rested vppo the mountayns of Ararat the.xvij. daye of the.vij. moneth.
5. And the waters went away ad decreased vntyll the x. moneth. And the fyrst daye of the tenth moneth the toppes of the mounteyns appered.
6. And after the ende of.xl. dayes. Noe opened the wyndow of the arke which he had made
7. ad sent forth a raven which went out ever goinge and cominge agayne vntyll the waters were dreyed vpp vppon the erth
8. Then sent he forth a doue from hym to wete whether the waters were fallen from of the erth.
9. And when the doue coude fynde no restinge place for hyr fote she returned to him agayne vnto the arke for the waters were vppon the face of all the erth. And he put out hys honde and toke her and pulled hyr to hym in to the arke
10. And he abode yet.vij. dayes mo and sent out the doue agayne out of the arke
11. And the doue came to hym agayne aboute eventyde and beholde: There was in hyr mouth a lefe of an olyve tre which she had plucked wherby Noe perceaved that the waters wer abated vppon the erth.
12. And he taried yet.vij. other dayes and sent forth the doue which from thence forth came no more agayne to him.
13. And it came to passe the syxte hundred and one yere and the fyrst daye of the fyrst moneth that the waters were dryed vpp apon the erth. And Noe toke off the hatches of the arke and loked: And beholde the face of the erth was drye.
14. so by the.xxvij. daye of the seconde moneth the erth was drye.
15. And God spake vnto Noe saynge:
16. come out of the arcke both thou and thy wyfe ad thy sonnes and thy sonnes wyues with the.
17. And all the beastes that are with the whatsoever flesh it be both foule and catell and all maner wormes that crepe on the erth brynge out with the and let them moue growe ad multiplye vppon the erth.
18. And Noe came out ad his sonnes and his wyfe and his sonnes wyues with hym.
19. And all the beastes and all the wormes and all the foules and all that moved vppon the erth came also out of the arke all of one kynde together.
20. And Noe made an aulter vnto the LORDE and toke of all maner of clene beastes and all maner of clene foules and offred sacrifyce vppon the aulter.
21. And the LORDE smellyd a swete savoure and sayd in his hert: I wyll henceforth no more curse the erth for mannes sake for the imagynacion of mannes hert is evell even from the very youth of hym. Morover I wyll not destroy from henceforth all that lyveth as I haue done.
22. Nether shall sowynge tyme and harvest colde and hete somere and wynter daye and nyghte ceasse as longe as the erth endureth.

== Genesis 9 ==
1. And God blessed Noe and his sonnes and sayd vnto them: Increase and multiplye and fyll the erth.
2. The feare also and drede of yow be vppon all beastes of the erth and vppon all foules of the ayre ad vppon all that crepeth on the erth and vppon all fyshes of the see which are geven vnto youre handes
3. And all that moveth vppon the erth havynge lyfe shall be youre meate: Euen as ye grene herbes so geue I yow all thynge.
4. Only the flesh with his life which is his bloud se that ye eate not.
5. For verely the bloude of yow wherein youre lyves are wyll I requyre: Eue of the hande of all beastes wyll I requyre it And of the hande of man and of the hand off euery mannes brother wyll I requyre the lyfe of man:
6. so yt he which shedeth mannes bloude shall haue hys bloud shed by man agayne: for God made man after his awne lycknesse.
7. See that ye encrease and waxe and be occupyde vppon the erth and multiplye therein.
8. Farthermore God spake vnto Noe and to hys sonnes wyth hym saynge:
9. see I make my bod wyth you and youre seed after you
10. and wyth all lyvynge thinge that is wyth you: both foule and catell and all maner beste of the erth that is wyth yow of all that commeth out of the arke what soeuer beste of the erth it be.
11. I make my bonde wyth yow that hence forth all flesh shall not be destroyed wyth yt waters of any floud ad yt hence forth there shall not be a floud to destroy the erth.
12. And God sayd. This is the token of my bode which I make betwene me and yow ad betwene all lyvynge thyng that is with yow for ever:
13. I wyll sette my bowe in the cloudes and it shall be a sygne of the appoyntment made betwene me and the erth:
14. So that when I brynge in cloudes vpo ye erth the bowe shall appere in ye cloudes.
15. And than wyll I thynke vppon my testament which I haue made betwene me and yow and all that lyveth what soeuer flesh it be. So that henceforth there shall be no more waters to make a floud to destroy all flesh.
16. The bowe shalbe in the cloudes and I wyll loke vpon it to remembre the euerlastynge testament betwene God and all that lyveth vppon the erth what soeuer flesh it be.
17. And God sayd vnto Noe: This is the sygne of the testament which I have made betwene me and all flesh yt is on the erth.
18. The sonnes of Noe that came out of the arke were: Sem Ham and Iapheth. And Ham he is the father of Canaa.
19. These are the.iij. sonnes of Noe and of these was all the world overspred.
20. And Noe beynge an husbad man went furth and planted a vyneyarde
21. and drancke of the wyne and was droncke and laye vncouered in the myddest of his tet.
22. And Ham the father of Canaan sawe his fathers prevytees and tolde his ij. brethren that were wythout.
23. And Sem and Iapheth toke a mantell and put it on both there shulders ad went backward ad covered there fathers secrets but there faces were backward So that they sawe not there fathers nakydnes.
24. As soone as Noe was awaked fro his wyne and wyst what his yongest sonne had done vnto hym
25. he sayd: cursed be Canaan ad a seruante, of all seruantes be he to his brethren.
26. And he sayd: Blessed be the LORde God of Se and Canaan be his seruante.
27. God increase Iapheth that he may dwelle in the tentes of Sem. And Canaan be their seruante.
28. And Noe lyved after the floude.iij. hundred and.l. yere: So that all the dayes of Noe were ix. hundred and.l. yere ad than he dyed.
29. 

== Genesis 10 ==
1. These are the generations of the sonnes of Noe: of Sem Ham and Iapheth which begat them children after the floude.
2. The sonnes of Iapheth were: Gomyr Magog Madai Iauan Tuball Mesech and Thyras.
3. And the sonnes of Gomyr were: Ascenas Riphat and Togarina.
4. And the sonnes of Iauan were: Elisa Tharsis Cithun and Dodanim.
5. Of these came the Iles of the gentylls in there contres every man in his speach kynred and nation.
6. The sonnes of Ham were: Chus Misraim Phut and Canaan.
7. The sonnes of Chus: were Seba Hevila Sabta Rayma and Sabtema. And the sonnes of Rayma were: Sheba and Dedan.
8. Chus also begot Nemrod which bega to be myghtye in the erth.
9. He was a myghtie hunter in the syghte of the LORde: Where of came the proverbe: he is as Nemrod that myghtie hunter in the syghte of the LORde.
10. And the begynnynge of hys kyngdome was Babell Erech Achad and Chalne in the lande of Synear:
11. Out of that lande came Assur and buylded Ninyue and the cyte rehoboth and Calah
12. And Ressen betwene Ninyue ad Chalah. That is a grete cyte.
13. And Mizraim begat Iudun Enamim Leabim Naphtuhim
14. Pathrusim and Castuhim: from whence came the Philystyns and the Capthiherynes.
15. Canaan also begat zidon his eldest sonne and Heth
16. Iebusi Emori Girgosi
17. Hiui Arki Sini
18. Aruadi Zemari and hamari. And afterward sprange the kynreds of the Canaanytes
19. And the costes of the Canaanytes were fro Sydon tyll thou come to Gerara and to Asa and tyll thou come to Sodoma Gomorra Adama Zeboim: eve vnto Lasa.
20. These were the chyldre of Ham in there kynreddes tonges landes and nations.
21. And Sem the father of all ye childre of Eber and the eldest brother of Iapheth begat children also.
22. And his sonnes were: Elam Assur Arphachsad Lud ad Aram.
23. And ye childree of Aram were: Vz Hul Gether and Mas
24. And Arphachsad begat Sala and Sala begat Eber.
25. And Eber begat.ij. sonnes. The name of the one was Peleg for in his tyme the erth was devyded. And the name of his brother was Iaketanr
26. Iaketan begat Almodad Saleph Hyzarmoneth Iarah
27. Hadoram Vsal Dikela
28. Obal Abimach Seba
29. Ophir Heuila and Iobab. All these are the sonnes of Iaketan.
30. And the dwellynge of them was from Mesa vntill thou come vnto Sephara a mountayne of the easte lande.
31. These are the sonnes o Sem in their kynreddes languages contrees and nations.
32. These are the kynreddes of the sonnes of Noe in their generations and nations. And of these came the people that were in the world after the floude.

== Genesis 11 ==
1. And all the world was of one tonge and one language.
2. And as they came from the east they founde a playne in the lande of Synear and there they dwelled.
3. And they sayd one to a nother: come on let us make brycke ad burne it wyth fyre. So brycke was there stone and slyme was there morter
4. And they sayd: Come on let vs buylde vs a cyte and a toure that the toppe may reach vnto heauen. And let vs make us a name for perauenture we shall be scatered abrode over all the erth.
5. And the LORde came downe to see the cyte and the toure which the childern of Ada had buylded.
6. And the LORde sayd: See the people is one and haue one tonge amonge them all. And thys haue they begon to do and wyll not leaue of from all that they haue purposed to do.
7. Come on let vs descende and myngell theire tonge even there that one vnderstonde not what a nother sayeth.
8. Thus ye LORde skatered them from thence vppon all the erth. And they left of to buylde the cyte.
9. Wherfore the name of it is called Babell because that the LORDE there confounded the tonge of all the world. And because that the LORde from thence skatered them abrode vppon all the erth.
10. These are the generations of Sem: Se was an hundred yere olde and begat Arcphachsad ij. yere after the floude.
11. And Se lyved after he had begot Arphachsad.v. hundred yere an begat sonnes and doughters.
12. And Arphacsad lyued.xxxv. yere and begat Sala
13. and lyved after he had begot Sala iiij. hudred yere and.iij and begat sonnes and doughters.
14. And Sala was.xxx. yere old and begat Eber
15. ad lyued after he had begot Eber.iiij. hudred and thre yere ad begat sonnes and doughters
16. When Eber was.xxxiiij. yere olde he begat Peleg
17. and lyued after he had begot Peleg foure hundred and.xxx. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
18. And Peleg when he was.xxx. yere olde begat Regu
19. and lyued after he had begot Regu. ij. hundred and.ix. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
20. And Regu when he had lyued.xxxij. yere begat Serug
21. and lyued after he had begot Serug.ij. hundred and.vij. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
22. And when Serug was.xxx. yere olde he begat Nahor
23. and lyued after he had begot Nahor.ij. hundred yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
24. And Nahor when he was.xxix. yere olde begat Terah
25. and lyved after he had begot Terah an hundred and.xix. yere and begat sonnes and doughters.
26. And when Terah was.lxx. yere olde he begat Abram Nahor and Haran.
27. And these are the generations of Terah. Terah begat Abram Nahor and Haran. And Haran begat Lot.
28. And Haran dyed before Terah his father in the londe where he was borne at Vr in Chaldea.
29. And Abram and Nahor toke them wyves. Abras wyfe was called Sarai. And Nahors wyfe Mylca the doughter of Haran which was father of Milca ad of Iisca.
30. But Sarai was baren and had no childe.
31. Than toke Terah Abram his sonne and Lot his sonne Harans sonne and Sarai his doughter in lawe his sone Abrams wyfe. And they went wyth hym from Vr in Chaldea to go in to the lade of Chanaan. And they came to Haran and dwelled there.
32. And when Terah was ij. hundred yere old and.v. he dyed in Haran.

== Genesis 12 ==
1. Then the LORde sayd vnto Abra Gett the out of thy contre and from thy kynred and out of thy fathers house into a londe which I wyll shewe the.
2. And I wyll make of the a myghtie people and wyll blesse the and make thy name grete that thou mayst be a blessinge.
3. And I wyll blesse the that blesse the ad curse the that curse the. And in the shall be blessed all the generations of the erth.
4. And Abram wet as the LORde badd hym and Lot went wyth him. Abram was.lxxv. yere olde when he went out of Haran.
5. And Abram toke Sarai his wyfe ad Lot his brothers sonne wyth all their goodes which they had goten and soulles which they had begoten in Haran. And they departed to goo in to the lade of Chanaan. And when they were come in to the lande of Chanaan
6. Abram went furth in to the lade tyll he came vnto a place called Sychem and vnto the oke of More. And the Canaanytes dwelled then in the lande.
7. Then the LORde apeared vnto Abram ad sayd: vnto thy seed wyll I geue thys lade. And he buylded an aultere there vnto the LORDE which apeared to hym.
8. Then departed he thence vnto a mountayne that lyeth on the east syde of BETHEL and pytched hys tente: BETHEL beynge on the west syde and Ay on the east: And he buylded there an aulter vnto the LORde and called on the name of ye LORde.
9. And than Abram departed and toke his iourney southwarde
10. After thys there came a derth in the lande. And Abram went doune in to Egipte to soiourne there for the derth was sore in the lande.
11. And when he was come nye for to entre in to Egipte he sayd vnto sarai his wife. Beholde I knowe that thou art a fayre woman to loke apo.
12. It wyll come to passe therfore whe the Egiptians see the that they wyll say: she is his wyfe. And so shall they sley me and save the.
13. saye I praye the therfore that thou art my sister that I maye fare the better by reason of the and that my soule maye lyue for thy sake.
14. As soone as he came in to Egipte the Egiptias sawe the woman that she was very fayre.
15. And Pharaos lordes sawe hir also and praysed hir vnto Pharao: So that she was taken in to Pharaos house
16. which entreated Abram well for hir sake so that he had shepe oxsen ad he asses men seruantes mayde seruates she asses and camels.
17. But God plaged Pharao and his house wyth grete plages because of Sarai Abrams wyfe.
18. Then Pharao called Abram and sayd: why hast thou thus dealt with me? Wherfore toldest thou me not that she was thy wyfe?
19. Why saydest thou that she was thy sister and causedest me to take hyr to my wyfe? But now loo there is the wife take hir ad be walkynge.
20. Pharao also gaue a charge vnto his men over Abram to leade hym out wyth his wyfe and all that he had.

== Genesis 13 ==
1. Than Abram departed out of Egipte both he and his wyfe and all that he had and Lot wyth hym vnto the south.
2. Abram was very rych in catell syluer and gold.
3. And he went on his iourney fro the south even vnto BETHEL ad vnto the place where his tente was at the fyrst tyme betwene BETHEL and Ay
4. and vnto the place of the aulter which he made before. And there called Abram vpon the name of the LORde.
5. Lot also which went wyth hym had shepe catell and tentes:
6. so that the londe was not abill to receaue them that they myght dwell together for the substance of their riches was so greate that they coude not dwell together
7. And there fell a stryfe betwene the herdmen of Abrams catell and the herdmen of Lots catell. Moreouer the Cananytes and the Pherysites dwelled at that tyme in the lande.
8. Than sayd Abram vnto Lot: let there be no stryfe I praye the betwene the and me and betwene my herdmen and thyne for we be brethren.
9. Ys not all the hole lande before the? Departe I praye the fro me. Yf thou wylt take the lefte hande I wyll take the right: Or yf thou take the right hande I wyll take the left.
10. And Lot lyft vp hys eyes and beheld all the contre aboute Iordane which was a plenteous contre of water every where before the LORde destroyed Sodoma and Gomorra.Even as the garden of the LORde and as the lande of Egipte tyll thou come to Zoar.
11. Than Lot chose all the costes of Iordane ad toke hys iourney from the east. And so departed the one brother from the other.
12. Abram dwelled in the lande of Canaan. And lot in the cytes of the playne and tented tyll he came to Sodome.
13. But the men of sodome were wyked and synned exceadyngly agenst the LORde.
14. And the LORde sayed vnto Abram after that Lot was departed from hym: lyfte vp thyne eyes and loke from ye place where thou art northward southward eastward and westward
15. for all the lande which thou seiste wyll I gyue vnto the and to thy seed for ever.
16. And I wyll make thy seed as the dust of the erth: so that yf a ma can nombre the dust of the erth than shall thy seed also be nombred.
17. Aryse and walke aboute in the lande in the length of it ad in the bredth for I wyll geue it vnto the.
18. Than Abra toke downe hys tente and went and dwelled in the okegrove of Mamre which is in Ebron and buylded there an altar to the LORde.

== Genesis 14 ==
1. And it chaunsed within a while that Amraphel kynge of Synear Arioch kynge of Ellasar Kedorlaomer kynge of Elam and Thydeall kynge of the nations:
2. made warre wyth Bera kynge of Sodoh and with Birsa kynge of Gomorra. And wythe Sineab kynge of Adama and with Semeaber kynge of Zeboim and wyth the kynge of Bela Which Bela is called Zoar.
3. All these came together vnto the vale of siddim which is now the salt see
4. Twelve yere were they subiecte to kinge kedorlaomer and in the.xiij. yere rebelled.
5. Therfore in the.xiiij. yere came kedorlaomer and the kynges that were wyth hym and smote the Raphayms in Astarath Karnaim and the Susims in Hain ad the Emyms in Sabe Kariathaim
6. and the Hozyms in their awne mounte Seir vnto the playne of Pharan which bordreth vpon the wyldernesse.
7. And then turned they and came to the well of iugmente which is Cades and smote all the contre of the Amalechites and also the amorytes that dwell in Hazezon Thamar.
8. Than went out the kynge of Sodome and the kynge of Gomorra and the kinge of Adama and the kynge of Zeboijm and the kynge of Bela now called Zoar. And sette their men in aray to fyghte wyth them in the vale of siddim that is to say
9. wyth kedorlaomer the kynge of Elam and with Thydeall kynge of the Nations and wyth Amraphel kynge of Synear. And with Arioch kynge of Ellasar: foure kynges agenste v.
10. And that vale of siddim was full of slyme pyttes.And the kynges of Sodome and Gomorra fled and fell there. And the resydue fled to the mountaynes.
11. And they toke all the goodes of Sodome and Gomorra and all their vitalles ad went their waye.
12. And they toke Lot also Abrams brothers sonne and his good (for he dwelled at Sodome) and departed:
13. Than came one that had escaped and tolde Abram the hebrue which dwelled in the okegrove of Mamre the Amoryte brother of Eschol and Aner: which were confederate wyth Abram.
14. When Abram herde that his brother was taken he harnessed his seruantes borne in his owne house.iij. hundred and.xviij. ad folowed tyll they came at Dan.
15. And sette hymselfe ad his seruantes in aray and fell vpon them by nyght and smote them and chased them awaye vnto Hoba: which lyeth on the lefte hande of Damascos
16. and broughte agayne all the goodes and also his brother Lot ad his goodes the weme also and the people.
17. And as he retourned agayne from the slaughter of kedorlaomer and of the kynges that were with hym than came the kynge of Sodome agaynst hym vnto the vale of Saue which now is called kynges dale.
18. Than Melchisedech kinge of Salem brought forth breed and wyne. And he beynge the prest of the most hyghest God
19. blessed hym saynge. Blessed be Abram vnto the most hyghest God possessor of heauen and erth.
20. And blessed be God the most hyghest which hath delyvered thyne enimies in to thy handes. And Abra gaue hym tythes of all.
21. Than sayd the kynge of Sodome vnto Abram: gyue me the soulles and take the goodes to thy selfe.
22. And Abram answered the kynge of Sodome: I lyfte vpp my hande vnto the LORde God most hygh possessor of heaven ad erth
23. that I will not take of all yt is thyne so moch as a thred or a shoulacher lest thou shuldest saye I haue made Abra ryche.
24. Saue only that which the yonge men haue eaten ad the partes of the men which went wyth me. Aner Escholl and Mamre. Let them take their partes.

== Genesis 15 ==
1. After these deades ye worde of God came vnto Abram in a vision saynge feare not Abram I am thy shilde and thy rewarde shalbe exceadynge greate.
2. And Abram answered: LORde Iehouah what wilt thou geue me: I goo childlesse and the cater of myne housse this Eleasar of Damasco hath a sonne.
3. And Abram sayd: se to me hast thou geven no seed: lo a lad borne in my housse shalbe myne heyre.
4. And beholde the worde of the LORde spake vnto Abram sayenge: He shall not be thyne heyre but one that shall come out of thyne awne bodye shalbe thyne heyre.
5. And he brought him out at the doores ad sayde. Loke vpp vnto heaven and tell the starres yf thou be able to nobre them. And sayde vnto him Even so shall thy seed be.
6. And Abram beleved the LORde and it was counted to him for rightwesnes.
7. And he sayde vnto hym: I am the LORde that brought the out of Vrin Chaldea to geue the this lande to possesse it.
8. And he sayde: LORde God whereby shall I knowe that I shall possesse it?
9. And he sayde vnto him: take an heyfer of.iij. yere olde and a she gotte of thre yeres olde and a thre yere olde ram a turtill doue and a yonge pigeon.
10. And he toke all these and devyded them in the myddes and layde euery pece one over agenst a nother. But the foules devyded he not.
11. And the byrdes fell on the carcases but Abra droue the awaye.
12. And when the sonne was doune there fell a slomber apon Abram. And loo feare and greate darknesse came apon hym.
13. And he sayde vnto Abram: knowe this of a suertie that thi seed shalbe a straunger in a lande that perteyneth not vnto the. And they shall make bondmen of them and entreate them evell iiij. hundred yeares.
14. But the nation whom they shall serue wyll I iudge. And after warde shall they come out wyth greate substace.
15. Neuerthelesse thou shalt goo vnto thi fathers in peace ad shalt be buried when thou art of a good age:
16. ad in the fourth generation they shall come hyther agayne for the wekednesse of the Amorites ys not yet full.
17. When the sonne was doune and it was waxed darke: beholde there was a smokynge furnesse and a fyre brand that went betwene the sayde peces.
18. And that same daye the LORde made a covenaunte with Abram saynge: vnto thy seed wyll I geue thys londe fro the ryver of Egypte even vnto the greate ryver euphrates:
19. the kenytes the kenizites the Cadmonites
20. the Hethites the Pherezites the Raphaims
21. the Amorytes the Canaanites the Gergesites and the Iebusites.

== Genesis 16 ==
1. Sarai Abrams wyfe bare him no childerne. But she had an hand mayde an Egiptian whose name was Hagar.
2. Wherfore the sayde vnto Abram. Beholde the LORde hath closed me that I can not bere. I praye the goo in vnto my mayde peradueture I shall be multiplyed by meanes of her And Abram herde the voyce of Sarai. Than Sarai
3. Abrams wife toke Hagar hyr mayde the Egitian (after Abram had dwelled.x. yere in the lande of Canaan) and gaue her to hyr husbonde Abram to be his wyfe.
4. And he wente in vnto Hagar and she conceaved. And when she sawe that she had conceyved hyr mastresse was despised in hyr syghte.
5. Than sayd Sarai vnto Abram: Thou dost me vnrighte for I haue geuen my mayde in to thy bosome: and now because she seyth that she hath coceaved I am despysed in hyr syghte: the LORde iudge betwene the and me.
6. Than sayde Abra to Sarai: beholde thy mayde is in thy hande do with hyr as it pleaseth the.And because Sarai fared foule with her she fled from her.
7. And the angell of the LORde founde her besyde a fountayne of water in the wyldernes: euen by a well in the way to Sur.
8. And he sayde: Hagar Sarais mayde whence comest thou and whether wylt thou goo? And she answered: I flee from my mastresse Sarai.
9. And the angell of the LORde sayde vnto her: returne to thy mastresse agayne and submytte thy selfe vnder her handes.
10. And the angell of ye LORde sayde vnto her: I will so encrease thy seed that it shall not be numbred for multitude.
11. And the LORdes angell sayd further vnto her: se thou art wyth childe and shalt bere a sonne and shalt call his name Ismael: because the LORDE hath herde thy tribulation.
12. He will be a wylde man and his hande will be agenst every man and euery mans hande agenst him. And yet shall he dwell faste by all his brothren.
13. And she called the name of the LORde that spake vnto her: thou art the God that lokest on me for she sayde: I haue of a suertie sene here the backe parties of him that seith me.
14. Wherfore she called the well the well of the lyuynge that seith me which well is betwene Cades and Bared.
15. And Hagar bare Abram a sonne and Abram called his sons name which Hagar bare Ismaell.
16. And Abram was.lxxxvi. yere olde when Hagar bare him Ismael.

== Genesis 17 ==
1. When Abram was nynetye yere olde and ix. the LORde apeared to hym sayenge: I am the almyghtie God: walke before me ad be vncorrupte.
2. And I wyll make my bonde betwene the and me and wyll multiplye the excedyngly.
3. And Abra fell on his face. And God talked moreover with hym saynge:
4. I am beholde my testamet is with the that thou shalt be a father of many natios.
5. Therfore shalt thou no more be called Abram but thy name shalbe Abraham: for a father of many nations haue I made the
6. and I will multiplye the excedyngly and wyll make nations of the: yee and kynges shall sprynge out of the.
7. Moreover I will make my bonde betwene me and the and thy seed after the in their tymes to be an everlastynge testament So that I wyll be God vnto the and to thy seed after the.
8. And I will geue vnto the ad to thy seed after the the lande where in thou arte a straunger: Euen all the lande of Canaan for an everlastynge possession and wil be their God.
9. And God sayde vnto Abraha: Se thou kepe my testamente both thou and thy seed after the in their tymes:
10. This is my testamente which ye shall kepe betwene me and you and thy seed after the that ye circucyse all youre men childern ye shall circumcyse
11. the foreskynne of youre flesh ad it shal be a token of the bond betwixte me and you.
12. And euery manchilde when it is viij. dayes olde shal be circucysed amonge you in youre generations and all servauntes also borne at home or boughte with money though they be straungers and not of thy seed.
13. The seruaunte borne in thy housse ad he also that is bought with money must needes be circumcysed that my testament may be in youre flesh for an everlastinge bonde.
14. Yf there be any vncircuncysed manchilde that hath not the forskynne of his flesh cutt of his soule shall perish from his people: because he hath broke my testamet
15. And God sayde vnto Abraham. Sarai thy wyfe shall nomore be called Sarai: but Sara shall hir name be.
16. For I will blesse her and geue the a sonne of her and will blesse her: so that people ye and kynges of people shall springe of her.
17. And Abraham fell vpon his face ad laughte and sayd in his harte: shall a childe be borne vnto hym that is an hundred yere olde ad shall Sara that is nynetie yere olde bere?
18. And Abraha sayde vnto God. O that Ismaell myghte lyve in thy syghte.
19. The sayde God: na Sara thy wife shall bere the a sonne ad thou shalt call his name Isaac. And I will make my bonde with him that it shall be an everlastynge bonde vnto his seed after him.
20. And as concernynge Ismaell also I haue herde thy request: loo I will blesse him and encrease him and multiplye him excedyingly. Twelve prynces shall be begete and I will make a great nation of him.
21. But my bonde will I make with Isaac which Sara shall bere vnto the: even this tyme twelue moneth.
22. And God left of talkynge with him and departed vp from Abraham.
23. And Abraham toke Ismaell his sonne and all the servauntes borne in his housse and all that was bought with money as many as were menchildren amonge the me of Abrahas housse and circumcysed the foreskynne of their flesh even the selfe same daye as God had sayde vnto him.
24. Abraham was nynetie yere olde and.ix. when he cutt of the foreskynne of his flesh.
25. And Ismaell his sonne was.xiij. yere olde when the foreskynne of hys flesh was circumcysed.
26. The selfe same daye was Abraha circucised and Ismael his sonne.
27. And all the men in his housse whether they were borne in his housse or bought wyth money (though they were straungers) were circumcysed with him.

== Genesis 18 ==
1. And the LORde apeared vnto him in the okegrove of Mamre as he sat in his tent doze in the heate of the daye.
2. And he lyfte vp his eyes and looked: ad lo thre men stode not farr from hym. And whe he sawe them he ran agenst them from the tent dore and fell to the grounde
3. and sayde: LORde yf I haue founde fauoure in thy syght goo not by thi seruaunte.
4. Let a litle water be fett and wash youre fete and rest youre selves vnder the tree:
5. And I will fett a morsell of breed to comforte youre hartes wythall. And tha goo youre wayes for even therfore ar ye come to youre servaunte. And they answered: Do even so as thou hast sayde.
6. And Abraha went a pace in to his tent vnto Sara ad sayde: make redy att once thre peckes of fyne meale kneade it and make cakes.
7. And Abraham ran vnto his beastes and fett a calfe that was tendre and good and gaue it vnto a yonge man which made it redy attonce.
8. And he toke butter and mylcke and the calfe which he had prepared and sett it before them and stode hymselfe by them vnder the tree: and they ate.
9. And they sayde vnto him: Where is Sara thy wife? And he sayde: in the tent.
10. And he sayde: I will come agayne vnto the as soone as the frute can lyue. And loo: Sara thy wife shall haue a sonne. That herde Sara out of the tent doore which was behind his backe.
11. Abraham and Sara were both olde and well stryken in age and it ceased to be with Sara after the maner as it is wyth wyves.
12. And Sara laughed in hir selfe saynge: Now I am waxed olde shall I geue my selfe to lust and my lorde olde also?
13. Than sayd the LORde vnto Abraha: wherfore doth Sara laughe saynge: shal I of a suertie bere a childe now when I am olde?
14. is the thinge to harde for the LORde to do? In the tyme appoynted will I returne vnto the as soone as the frute can haue lyfe And Sara shall haue a sonne.
15. Than Sara denyed it saynge: I laughed not for she was afrayde. But he sayde: yes thou laughtest.
16. Than the men stode vp from thence ad loked towarde Sodome. And Abraham went with them to brynge them on the waye.
17. And the LORde sayde: Can I hyde from Abraham that thinge which I am aboute to do
18. seynge that Abraham shall be a great ad a myghtie people and all the nations of the erth shalbe blessed in him?
19. For I knowe him that he will commaunde his childern and his housholde after him yt they kepe the waye of the LORde to do after righte and conscyence that the LORde may brynge vppon Abraham that he hath promysed him.
20. And the LORde sayde? The crie of Sodome and Gomorra is great and there synne is excedynge grevous.
21. I will go downe and see whether they haue done all to gedder acordynge to that crye which is come vnto me or not that I may knowe.
22. And the me departed thece and went to Sodomeward. But Abraham stode yet before ye LORde
23. and drewe nere and saydeWylt thou destroy the rightwes with the wyked?
24. Yf there be.l. rightwes within the cyte wilt thou destroy it and not spare the place for the sake of.l. rightwes that are therin?
25. That be farre from the that thou shuldest do after thys maner to sley the rightwes with the weked ad that the rightwes shulde be as the weked: that befarre from the. Shulde not the iudge of all ye worlde do acordynge to righte?
26. And the LORde sayde: Yf I fynde in Sodome.l. rightwes within the cyte I will spare all the place for their sakes.
27. And Abraham answered and sayde: beholde I haue taken vppon me to speake vnto ye LORde ad yet am but dust ad asshes.
28. What though there lacke.v. of.l. rightwes wylt thou destroy all the cyte for lacke of.v? And he sayde: Yf I fynde there.xl. and.v. I will not destroy them.
29. And he spake vnto him yet agayne and sayde: what yf there be.xl. foude there: And he sayde: I wyll not do it for forties sake.
30. And he sayde: O let not my LORde be angrye that I speake. What yf there be foude.xxx. there? And he sayde: I will not do it yf I finde.xxx. there.
31. And be sayde: Oh se I haue begonne to speake vnto my LORde what yf there be.xx. founde there? And he sayde: I will not distroy the for tweties sake.
32. And he sayde: O let not my LORde be angrye that I speake yet but eue once more only. What yf ten be founde there?. And he sayde: I will not destroy the for.x. sake.
33. And the LORde wet his waye as soone as he had lefte comenynge with Abraha. And Abraham returned vnto his place

== Genesis 19 ==
1. And there came.ij. angells to Sodome at euen. And Lot satt at the gate of the cyte. And Lot sawe the and rose vp agaynst them and he bowed hym selfe to he grounde with his face.
2. And he sayde: Se lordes turne in I praye you in to youre servauntes house and tary all nyghte and wash youre fete and ryse vp early and go on youre wayes. And they sayde: nay but we will byde in the streates all nyghte.
3. And he copelled them excedyngly. And they turned in vnto hym and entred in to his house and he made them a feaste and dyd bake swete cakes and they ate.
4. But before they went to rest the men of the cyte of Sodome compassed the house rownde aboute both olde and yonge all the people from all quarters.
5. And they called vnto Lot and sayde vnto him: where are the men which came in to thy house to nyghte? brynge the out unto vs that we may do oure lust with them.
6. And Lot went out at doores vnto them and shote the dore after him
7. and sayde: nay for goddes sake brethren do not so wekedly.
8. Beholde I haue two doughters which haue knowne no man the will I brynge out vnto you: do with them as it semeth you good: Only vnto these men do nothynge for therfore came they vnder the shadowe of my rofe.
9. And they sayde: come hither. And they sayde: camest thou not in to sogeorne and wilt thou be now a iudge? we will suerly deale worse with the than with themAnd as they preased fore vppon Lot and beganne to breake vp the doore
10. the men put forth their handes and pulled Lot in to the house to them and shott to the doore.
11. And the men that were at the doore of the house they smote with blyndnesse both small and greate: so that they coude not fynde the doore.
12. And the men sayde moreover vnto Lot: Yf thou have yet here any sonne in lawe or sonnes or doughters or what so euer thou hast in the cyte brynge it out of this place:
13. for we must destroy this place because the crye of the is great before the LORde. Wherfore he hath sent vs to destroy it.
14. And Lot went out and spake vnto his sonnes in lawe which shulde haue maried his doughters and sayde: stonde vpp and get yow out of this place for the LORde will destroy the cite. But he semed as though he had mocked vnto his sonnes in law.
15. And as the mornynge arose the angells caused Lot to spede him saynge. Stonde vp take thy wyfe and thy two doughters and that that is at hande lest thou perish in the synne of the cyte.
16. And as he prolonged the tyme the men caught both him his wife ad his two doughters by the handes because the LORde was mercyfull vnto him ad they brought him forth and sette him without the cyte.
17. When they had brought them out they sayde: Saue thy lyfe and loke not behynde the nether tary thou in any place of the contre but saue thy selfe in the mountayne lest thou perisshe.
18. Than sayde Lot vnto them: Oh nay my lorde:
19. beholde in as moch as thy servaunte hath fownde grace in thy syghte now make thi mercy great which thou shewest vnto me in savinge my lyfe. For I can not saue my selfe in the mountayns lest some misfortune fall vpon me and I dye.
20. Beholde here is a cyte by to flee vnto and it is a lytle one: let me saue my selfe therein: is it not a litle one that my soule may lyue?
21. And he sayde to him: se I haue receaved thy request as concernynge this thynge that I will nott overthrowe this cytie for the which thou hast spoken.
22. Haste the ad saue thy selfe there for I can do nothynge tyll thou be come in thyder. And therfore the name of the cyte is called Zoar.
23. And the sone was vppon the erth when Lot was entred in to Zoar.
24. Than the LORde rayned vpon Sodome and Gomorra brymstone and fyre from the LORde out of heaven
25. and overthrewe those cyteis and all the region and all that dwelled in the cytes and that that grewe vpon the erth.
26. And lots wyfe loked behynde her ad was turned in to a pillare of salte.
27. Abraham rose vp early and got him to the place where he stode before the LORde
28. and loked toward Sodome and Gomorra and toward all the londe of that contre. And as he loked: beholde the smoke of the contre arose as it had bene the smoke of a fornace.
29. But yet whe God destroyed the cities of ye regio he thought a pon Abraha: and sent Lot out from the dager of the overthrowenge when he overthrewe the cyttes where Lot dwelled.
30. And Lot departed out of Zoar and dwelled in the mountayns ad his.ij. doughters with him for he feared to tary in Zoar: he dweld therfore in a caue both he and his.ij. doughters also.
31. Than sayde the elder vnto the yonger oure father is olde and there are no moo men in the erth to come in vnto vs after the maner of all the world.
32. Come therfore let vs geue oure father wyne to dryncke and let vs lye with him that we may saue seed of oure father.
33. And they gaue their father wyne to drynke that same nyghte. And the elder doughter went and laye with her father. And he perceaued it not nether when she laye doune nether when she rose vp.
34. And on the morowe the elder sayde vnto the yonger: beholde yesternyghte laye I with my father. Let us geue hym wyne to drinke this nyghte also and goo thou and lye with him and let us saue seed of oure father.
35. And they gaue their father wyne to drincke that nyghte also. And the yonger arose and laye with him. And he perceaved it not: nether when she laye downe nether when she rose vp.
36. Thus were both the doughters of lot with childe by their father
37. And the elder bare a sone and called hym Moab which is the father of the Moabytes vnto this daye.
38. And the yonger bare a sonne and called hym Ben Ammi which is the father of the childern of Ammon vnto this daye.

== Genesis 20 ==
1. And Abraham departed thence towarde the southcontre and dwelled betwene Cades and Sur ad sogeorned in Gerar.
2. And Abraham sayde of Sara his wyfe that she was his sister. Than Abimelech kynge of Gerar sent and fett Sara awaye.
3. And God came to Abimelech by nyghte in a dreame and sayde to him: Se thou art but a deed man for the womas sake which thou hast taken awaye for she is a mans wyfe.
4. But Abimelech had not yet come nye her and therfore sayde: lorde wilt thou sley rightewes people?
5. sayde not he vnto me that she was hys sister? yee and sayde not she herself that he was hir brother? wyth a pure herte and innocent handes haue I done this.
6. And God sayde vnto him in a dreame. I wot it well that thou dydest it in the purenesse of thi herte. And therfore I kepte ye that thou shuldest not synne agenst me nether suffred I the to come nygh her.
7. Now therfore delyuer the ma his wyfe ageyne for he is a prophete. And let him praye for the that thou mayst lyue. But and yf thou delyuer her not agayne be sure that thou shalt dye the deth with all that thou hast.
8. Than Abimelech rose vp be tymes in the mornynge and called all his servauntes and tolde all these thinges in their eares and the men were sore a frayde.
9. And Abimelech called Abraham and sayde vnto him: What hast thou done vnto vs and what haue I offended the that thou shuldest brynge on me and on my kyngdome so greate a synne? thou hast done dedes vnto me that ought not to be done.
10. And Abimelech sayde morouer vnto Abraham: What sawest thou that moved the to do this thinge?
11. And Abraham Answered. I thought that peradveture the feare of God was not in this place and that they shulde sley me for my wyfes sake:
12. yet in very dede she is my sister the doughter of my father but not of my mother: and became my wyfe.
13. And after God caused me to wandre out of my fathers house I sayde vnto her: This kyndnesse shalt thou shewe vnto me in all places where we come that thou saye of me how that I am thy brother.
14. Than toke Abimelech shepe and oxen menservauntes and wemenseruauntes and gaue them vnto Abraham and delyvered him Sara his wyfe agayne.
15. And Abimelech sayde: beholde the lande lyeth be fore the dwell where it pleaseth ye best.
16. And vnto Sara he sayde: Se I haue geuen thy brother a thousande peeces of syluer beholde he shall be a couerynge to thyne eyes vnto all that ar with the and vnto all men and an excuse.
17. And so Abraham prayde vnto God and God healed Abimeleh and his wyfe and hys maydens so that they bare.
18. For the LORde had closed to all the matryces of the house of Abimelech because of Sara Abrahams wyfe.

== Genesis 21 ==
1. The lorde visyted Sara as he had sayde and dyd vnto her acordynge as he had spoken.
2. And Sara was with childe and bare Abraha a sonne in his olde age euen the same season which the LORde had appoynted.
3. And Abraham called his sonnes name that was borne vnto him which Sara bare him Isaac:
4. and Abra circucysed Isaac his sone whe he was.viij. dayes olde as God commaunded him
5. And Abraha was an hundred yere olde when his sonne Isaac was borne vnto him.
6. And Sara sayde: God hath made me a laughinge stocke: for all yt heare will laugh at me
7. She sayde also: who wolde haue sayde vnto Abraham that Sara shulde haue geuen childern sucke or yt I shulde haue borne him a sonne in his olde age:
8. The childe grewe and was wened and Abraham made a great feast the same daye that Isaac was wened.
9. Sara sawe the sonne of Hagar the Egiptian which she had borne vnto Abraham a mockynge.
10. Then she sayde vnto Abraham: put awaye this bondemayde and hyr sonne: for the sonne of this bondwoman shall not be heyre with my sonne Isaac:
11. But the wordes semed verey greavous in Abrahams syghte because of his sonne.
12. Than the LORde sayde vnto Abraham: let it not be greavous vnto the because of the ladd and of thy bondmayde: But in all that Sara hath saide vnto the heare hir voyce for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
13. Moreouer of the sonne of the Bondwoman will I make a nation because he is thy seed.
14. And Abraham rose vp early in the mornyng and toke brede and a bottell with water and gaue it vnto Hagar puttynge it on hir shulders wyth the lad also and sent her awaye. And she departed and wadred vpp and doune in the wyldernes of Berseba.
15. When the water was spent that was in the botell she cast the lad vnder a bush
16. and went and satt her out of syghte a great waye as it were a bowshote off: For she sayde: I will not se the lad dye. And she satt doune out of syghte and lyfte vp hyr voyce and wepte.
17. And God herde the voyce of the childe. And the angell of God called Hagar out of heaven and sayde vnto her: What ayleth the Hagar? Feare not for God hath herde the voyce of the childe where he lyeth.
18. Aryse and lyfte vp the lad and take hym in thy hande for I will make off him a greate people.
19. And God opened hir eyes and she sawe a well of water. And she went and fylled the bottell with water and gaue the boye drynke.
20. And God was wyth the lad and he grewe and dweld in the wildernesse and became an archer.
21. And he dweld in the wyldernesse of Pharan. And hys mother gott him a wyfe out of the land of Egypte.
22. And it chaunced the same season that Abimelech and Phicoll his chefe captayne spake vnto Abraham saynge: God is wyth the in all that thou doist.
23. Now therfore swere vnto me even here by God that thou wylt not hurt me nor my childern nor my childerns childern. But that thou shalt deale with me and the contre where thou art a straunger acordynge vnto the kyndnesse that I haue shewed the.
24. Then sayde Abraham: I wyll swere.
25. And Abraham rebuked Abimelech for a well of water which Abimelech servauntes had taken awaye.
26. And Abimelech answered I wyst not who dyd it: Also thou toldest me not nether herde I of it but this daye.
27. And Abraham toke shepe and oxen and gaue them vnto Abimelech. And they made both of them a bonde together.
28. And Abraham sett vij. lambes by them selues.
29. And Abimelech sayde vnto Abraham: what meane these.vij. lamdes which thou hast sett by them selues.
30. And he answered: vij. lambes shalt thou take of my hande that it maye be a wytnesse vnto me that I haue dygged this well:
31. Wherfore the place is called Berseba because they sware both of them.
32. Thus made they a bonde to gether at Berseba.Than Abimelech and Phicoll his chefe captayne rose vp and turned agayne vnto the lande of the Philistines.
33. And Abraham planted a wodd in Berseba and called there on the name of the LORde the everlastynge God:
34. and dwelt in the Phelistinlade alonge season

== Genesis 22 ==
1. After these dedes God dyd proue Abraham and sayde vnto him: Abraham. And he answered: here am I.
2. And he sayde: take thy only sonne Isaac whome thou louest and get the vnto the lande of Moria and sacrifyce him there for a sacrifyce vpon one of the mountayns which I will shewe the
3. Than Abraham rose vp early in the mornynge and sadled his asse and toke two of his meyny wyth him and Isaac his sonne: ad clove wod for the sacrifyce and rose vp and gott him to the place which God had appoynted him.
4. The thirde daye Abraham lyfte vp his eyes and sawe the place a farr of
5. and sayde vnto his yong men: byde here with the asse. I and the lad will goo yonder and worshippe and come agayne vnto you.
6. And Abraham toke the wodd of the sacrifyce and layde it vpon Isaac his sonne and toke fyre in his hande and a knyfe. And they went both of them together.
7. Than spake Isaac vnto Abraham his father and sayde: My father? And he answered here am I my sonne. And he sayde: Se here is fyre and wodd but where is the shepe for sacrifyce?
8. And Abraham sayde: my sonne God wyll prouyde him a shepe for sacrifyce. So went they both together.
9. And when they came vnto the place which God shewed him Abraha made an aulter there and dressed the wodd ad bownde Isaac his sonne and layde him on the aulter aboue apon the wodd.
10. And Abraham stretched forth his hande and toke the knyfe to haue kylled his sonne.
11. Than the angell of the LORde called vnto him from heauen saynge: Abraham Abraham. And he answered: here am I.
12. And he sayde: laye not thy handes apon the childe nether do any thinge at all vnto him for now I knowe that thou fearest God in yt thou hast not kepte thine only sonne fro me.
13. And Abraham lyfted vp his eyes and loked aboute: and beholde there was a ram caught by the hornes in a thykette. And he went and toke the ram and offred him vp for a sacrifyce in the steade of his sonne
14. And Abraham called the name of the place the LORde will see: wherfore it is a come saynge this daye: in the mounte will the LORde be sene.
15. And the Angell of the LORde cryed vnto Abraham from heaven the seconde tyme
16. saynge: by my selfe haue I sworne (sayth the LORde) because thou hast done this thinge and hast not spared thy only sonne
17. that I will blesse th and multiplye thy seed as the starres of heaven and as the sonde vpo the seesyde. And thy seed shall possesse the gates of hys enymies.
18. And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed because thou hast obeyed my voyce.
19. So turned Abraham agayne vnto his yonge men and they rose vp and wet to gether to Berseba. And Abraham dwelt at Berseba
20. And it chaused after these thiges that one tolde Abraham saynge: Beholde Milcha she hath also borne childern vnto thy brother Nachor:
21. Hus his eldest sonne and Bus his brother and Lemuell the father of the Sinans
22. and Cesed and Haso and Pildas and Iedlaph and Bethuel.
23. And Bethuel begat Rebecca. These.viij. dyd Milcha bere to Nachor Abrahams brother
24. And his concubyne called Rheuma she bare also Tebah Gaham Thahas and Maacha.

== Genesis 23 ==
1. Sara was an hundred and.xxvij. yere olde (for so longe lyued she)
2. and than dyed in a heade cyte called Hebron in the londe of Canaan. Than Abraham came to morne Sara and to wepe for her.
3. And Abraham stode vp from the coorse and talked with the sonnes of heth saynge:
4. I am a straunger ad a foryner amonge yow geue me a possession to bury in with you that I may bury my dead oute of my sighte.
5. And the children of heth answered Abraham saynge vnto him:
6. heare vs lorde thou art a prynce of God amonge vs. In the chefest of oure sepulchres bury thy dead: None of vs shall forbydd ye his sepulchre yt thou shuldest not bury thy deade therein.
7. Abraha stode vp and bowed hi selfe before ye people of ye lade ye childre of heth.
8. And he comoned with them saynge: Yf it be youre myndes yt I shall bury my deade oute of my sighte heare me ad speke for me to Ephron the sonne of Zoar:
9. and let him geue me the dubill caue which he hath in the end of his felde for as moch money as it is worth let him geue it me in the presence of you for a possession to bury in.
10. For Hephron dwelled amoge ye childern of heth.Than Ephron the Hethite answered Abraham in the audyece of the childern of Heth and of all that went in at the gates of his cyte saynge:
11. Not so my lorde but heare me: The felde geue I the and the caue that therein is geue I the also And even in the presence of the sonnes of my people geve I it the to bury thy deede in.
12. Than Abraham bowed himselfe before the people of the lade
13. and spake vnto Ephro in the audyence of the people of the contre saynge: I praye the heare me I will geue sylver for the felde take it of me ad so will I bury my deed there.
14. Ephron answered Abraha saynge vnto him
15. My lorde harken vnto me. The lande is worth iiij. hundreth sycles of syluer: But what is that betwixte the and me? bury thy deede.
16. And Abraham harkened vnto Ephron and weyde him the sylver which he had sayde in the audyence of the sonnes of Heth. Euen.iiij. hudred syluer sycles of currant money amonge marchauntes
17. Thus was the felde of Ephron where in the dubbill caue is before Mamre: euen the felde and the caue that is therein and all the trees of the felde which growe in all the borders rounde aboute made sure
18. vnto Abraham for a possession in the syghte of the childern of Heth and of all that went in at the gates of the cyte.
19. And then Abraham buried Sara his wyfe in the double caue of the felde that lyeth before Mare otherwise called Ebron in the lande of Canaan.
20. And so both the felde ad the caue that is therein was made vnto Abraham a sure possession to bury in of the sonnes of Heth.

== Genesis 24 ==
1. Abraham was olde and stryken in dayes and the LORde had blessed him in all thinges.
2. And he sayde vnto his eldest servaunte of his house which had the rule over all that he had: Put thy hande vnder my thye that
3. I maye make the swere by the LORde that is God of heauen and God of the erth that thou shalt not take a wyfe vnto my sonne of the doughters of the canaanytes amonge which I dwell.
4. But shalt goo vnto my contre and to my kynred and there take a wyfe vnto my sonne Isaac.
5. Tha sayde the seruaunte vnto him: what ad yf the woma wyll not agree to come with me vnto this lade shall I brynge thy sonne agayne vnto the lande which thou camest out of:
6. And Abraha sayde vnto him: bewarre of that that thou brige not my sonne thither.
7. The LORde God of heauen which toke me from my fathers house and from the lande where I was borne and which spake vnto me and sware vnto me saynge: vnto thy seed wyll I geue this lande he shall sende his angell before the yt thou mayst take a wife vnto my sonne from thence.
8. Neuerthelesse yf the woma will not agree to come with the than shalt thou be with out daunger of this ooth. But aboue all thinge brynge not my sonne thyther agayne.
9. And the seruaunte put his hand vnder the thye of Abraham and sware to him as concernynge that matter.
10. And the seruaunte toke.x. camels of the camels of his master and departed and had of all maner goodes of his master with him and stode vp and went to Mesopotamia vnto the cytie of Nahor.
11. And made his camels to lye doune with out the cytie by a wels syde of water at euen: aboute the tyme that women come out to drawe water
12. and he sayde.LORde God of my master Abraha sende me good spede this daye and shewe mercy vnto my master Abraham.
13. Lo I stonde here by the well of water and the doughters of the men of this citie will come out to drawe water:
14. Now the damsell to whome I saye stoupe doune thy pytcher and let me drynke. Yf she saye drynke and I will geue thy camels drynke also yt same is she that thou hast ordened for they servaunte Isaac: yee and therby shall I knowe that thou hast shewed mercy on my master.
15. And it came to passe yer he had leeft spakynge that Rebecca came out the doughter of Bethuell sonne to Melcha the wife of Nahor Abrahams brother and hir pytcher apon hir shulder:
16. The damsell was very fayre to loke apon and yet a mayde and vnknowen of man.And she went doune to the well and fylled hyr pytcher and came vp agayne.
17. Then the seruaunte ranne vnto her and sayde: let me syppe a litle water of thi pither.
18. And she sayde: drynke my lorde.And she hasted and late downe her pytcher apon hyr arme and gaue him drinke.
19. And whe she had geven hym drynke she sayde: I will drawe water for thy camels also vntill they haue dronke ynough.
20. And she poured out hyr pitcher in to the trough hastely and ranne agayne vnto the well to fett water: and drewe for all his camels.
21. And the felowe wondred at her. But helde his peace to wete whether the LORde had made his iourney prosperous or not.
22. And as the camels had lefte drynckynge he toke an earynge of halfe a sicle weght and.ij golden bracelettes for hyr hades of.x. sycles weyght of gold
23. and sayde vnto her: whose doughter art thou? tell me: ys there rowme in thy fathers house for vs to lodge in?
24. And she sayde vnto him: I am the doughter of Bethuell the sonne of Milcha which she bare vnto Nahor:
25. and sayde moreouer vnto him: we haue litter and prauonder ynough and also rowme to lodge in.
26. And the man bowed himselfe and worshipped the LORde
27. and sayde: blessed be the LORde God of my master Abraham which ceasseth not to deale mercyfully and truly with my master And hath brought me the waye to my masters brothers house.
28. And the damsell ranne and tolde them of her mothers house these thinges.
29. And Rebecca had a brother called Laban.And Laban ranne out vnto the man to the well:
30. for as soone as he had sene the earynges and the bracelettes apon his sisters handes ad herde the wordes of Rebecca his sister saynge thus sayde the man vnto me than he went out vnto the man. And loo he stode yet with the camels by the well syde.
31. And Laban sayde: come in thou blessed of the LORde. Wherfore stondest thou without? I haue dressed the house and made rowme for the camels.
32. And than the ma came in to the house. And he vnbrydeld the camels: and brought litter and prauonder for the camels and water to weshe his fete and their fete that were with him
33. and there was meate sett before him to eate.But he sayde: I will not eate vntill I haue sayde myne earede: And he sayde saye on.
34. And he sayde: I am Abrahas servaunte
35. and the LORDE hath blessed my master out of measure that he is become greate and hath geven him shepe oxen syluer and golde menservauntes maydeservauntes camels ad asses.
36. And Sara my masters wyfe bare him a sonne whe she was olde: and vnto him hath he geven all that he hath.
37. And my master made me swere saynge: Thou shalt not take a wyfe to my sonne amonge the doughters of the cananytes in whose lade I dwell.
38. But thou shalt goo vnto my fathers house and to my kynred and there take a wyfe vnto my sonne.
39. And I sayde vnto my master. What yf the wyfe will not folowe me?
40. And he sayde vnto me: The LORde before whome I walke wyll sende his angell with the and prosper thy iourney that thou shalt take a wyfe for my sonne of my kynred and of my fathers house.
41. But and yf (when thou comest vnto my kynred) they will not geue the one tha shalt thou bere no perell of myne oothe.
42. And I came this daye vnto the well and sayed: O LORde the God of my master Abraha yf it be so that thou makest my iourney which I go prosperous:
43. beholde I stode by this well of water And when a virgyn cometh forth to drawe water and I saye to her: geue me a litle water of thi pitcher to drynke
44. and she saye agayne to me: dryncke thou and I will also drawe water for thy camels: that same is the wife whom the LORde hath prepared for my masters sonne.
45. And before I had made an ende of speakynge in myne harte: beholde Rebecca came forth and hir pitcher on hir shulder and she went doune vnto the well and drewe. And I sayde vnto her geue me drynke.
46. And she made hast and toke doune hir pitcher from of hir ad sayd: drinke and I will geue thy camels drynke also. And I dranke and she gaue the camels drynke also.
47. And I asked her saynge: whose doughter art thou? And she answered: the doughter of Bathuell Nahors sonne whome Milca bare vnto him.And I put the earynge vpon hir face and the bracelettes apon hir hondes.
48. And I bowed my selfe and worshepped the LORde and blessed the LORde God of my master Abraha which had brought me the right waye to take my masters brothers doughter vnto his sonne.
49. Now therfore yf ye will deall mercyfully and truly with my master tell me. And yf no tell me also: that I maye turne me to the right hande or to the left.
50. Than answered Laban and Bathuel saynge: The thinge is proceded even out of the lorde we can not therfore saye vnto the ether good or bad:
51. Beholde Rebecca before thy face take her and goo and let her be thy masters sonnes wife euen as the LORde hath sayde.
52. And whe Abrahams servaunte herde their wordes he bowed him selfe vnto the LORde flatt vpon the erth.
53. And the servaunte toke forth iewells of syluer and iewelles of gold and rayment and gaue them to Rebecca: But vnto hir brother and to hir mother he gaue spyces.
54. And then they ate and dranke both he and the men that were with him and taried all nyghte and rose vp in the mornynge.And he sayde: let me departe vnto my master.
55. But hir brother and hir mother sayde: let the damsell abyde with vs a while ad it be but even.x. dayes and than goo thy wayes.
56. And he sayde vnto them hinder me not: for the lorde hath prospered my iourney. Sende me awaye yt I maye goo vnto my master.
57. And they sayde: let vs call the damsell and witt what she sayth to the matter.
58. And they called forth Rebecca ad sayde vnto her: wilt thou goo with this ma? And she sayde: Yee.
59. Than they broughte Rebecca their sister on the waye and her norse and Abrahas servaunte and the men that were wyth him.
60. And they blessed Rebecca and sayde vnto her: Thou art oure sister growe in to thousande thousandes and thy seed possesse ye gates of their emnies.
61. And Rebecca arose and hir damsels and satt the vp apo the camels and went their waye after the man. And ye servaunte toke Rebecca and went his waye
62. And Isaac was a comige from the well of ye lyvynge and seynge for he dwelt in the south cotre
63. and was gone out to walke in his meditatios before ye eue tyde. And he lyfte vp his eyes and loked and beholde ye camels were cominge.
64. And Rebecca lyfte vp hir eyes and whe she sawe Isaac she lyghted of the camel
65. ad sayde vnto ye servaunte: what ma is this yt cometh agenst vs in the feld? And the servaute sayde: it is my master. And then she toke hir mantell ad put it aboute her.
66. And the servaute tolde Isaac all that he had done.
67. The Isaac broughte her in to his mother Saras tente ad toke Rebecca and she became his wife and he loved her: and so was Isaac coforted over his mother.

== Genesis 25 ==
1. Abraha toke hi another wyfe cald Ketura
2. which bare hi Sunram Iacksam Medan Midia Iesback and Suah.
3. And Iacksan begat Seba and Deda. And the sonnes of sedan were Assurim Letusim and Leumim.
4. And the sonnes of Midian were Epha Epher Hanoch Abida and Elda. All these were the childern of Bethura.
5. But Abraha gaue all that he had vnto Isaac.
6. And vnto the sonnes of his concubines he haue giftes and sent them awaye from Isaac his sonne (while he yet lyved) east ward vnto the east contre.
7. These are the dayes of the life of Abraha which he lyved: an hudred and.lxxv. yere
8. and than fell seke ad dyed in a lustie age (whe he had lyved ynough) ad was put vnto his people.
9. And his sonnes Isaac ad Ismael buried hi in the duble caue in the feld of Ephro sone of Zoar the Hethite before Mamre.
10. Which felde abraha boughte of the sonnes of Heth: There was Abraha buried and Sara hys wife.
11. And after yt deeth of Abraha God blessed Isaac his sonne which dweld by the well of the lyvige and seige
12. These are the generatios of Ismael Abrahas sonne which Hagar the Egiptia Saras hand mayde bare vnto Abraham.
13. And these are the names of the sones of Ismaell with their names in their kireddes. The eldest sone of Ismael Neuatoth the Redar Adbeel Mibsa
14. Misma Duma Masa
15. Hadar Thema Ietur Naphis and Redma.
16. These are the sones of Ismael and these are their names in their townes and castels.xij. princes of natios.
17. And these are the yeres of the lyfe of Ismael: an hudred and.xxxvij yere and than he fell seke and dyed and was layde vnto his people.
18. And he dweld from Euila vnto Sur yt is before Egypte as men go toward the Assirias. And he dyed in the presence of all his brethren.
19. And these are the generatios of Isaac Abrahas sonne: Abraha begat Isaac.
20. And Isaac was.xl. yere olde whe he toke Rebecca to wyfe the doughter of Bethuel the Sirian of Mesopotamia and sister to Iaban the Sirien.
21. And Isaac made intercessio vnto ye LORde for his wife: because she was bare: and ye LORde was itreated of hi and Rebecca his wife coceaued:
22. and ye childern stroue together withi her, the she sayde: yf it shulde goo so to passe what helpeth it yt I am with childe? And she went and axed ye LORde.
23. And ye LORde sayde vnto her there are.ij. maner of people in the wombe and ij. nations shall springe out of thy bowels and the one nation shalbe myghtier than the other and the eldest shalbe servaunte vnto the yonger.
24. And whe hir tyme was come to be delyuered beholde: there were.ij. twyns in hir wobe.
25. And he that came out first was redde and rough ouer all as it were an hyde: and they called his name Esau.
26. And after ward his brother came out and his hande holdynge Esau by the hele. Wher fore his name was called Iacob. And Isaac was.lx. yere olde whe she bare the:
27. and the boyes grewe and Esau became a conynge hunter and a tyllman. But Iacob was a simple man and dwelled in the tentes.
28. Isaac loved Esau because he dyd eate of his venyso but Rebecca loued Iacob
29. Iacob sod potage and Esau came from the feld and was faine
30. and sayd to Iacob: let me syppe of yt redde potage for I am fayntie. And therfore was his name called Edom.
31. And Iacob sayde: sell me this daye thy byrthrighte.
32. And Esau answered: Loo I am at the poynte to dye and what profit shall this byrthrighte do me?
33. And Iacob sayde swere to me then this daye. And he swore to him and sold his byrthrighte vnto Iacob.
34. Than Iacob gaue Esau brede and potage of redde ryse. And he ate and dronke and rose vp and went his waye. And so Esau regarded not his byrthrighte.

== Genesis 26 ==
1. And there fell a derth in ye lande passinge the first derth yt fell in the dayes of Abraham. Wherfore Isaac went vnto Abimelech kinge of ye Philistias vnto Gerar.
2. The the LORde apeared vnto him and sayde goo not doune in to Egipte but byde in ye land which I saye vnto ye:
3. Sogeorne in this lade and I wyll be with ye and wyll blesse ye: for vnto the and vnto thy sede I will geue all these cotreis And I will performe the oothe which I swore vnto Abraha thy father
4. and will multiplye thy seed as ye starres of heave and will geue vnto thy seed all these contreis. And thorow thy seed shall all the natios of the erth be blessed
5. because yt Abraha harkened vnto mi voyce and kepte mine ordinauces comaudmetes statutes and lawes
6. And Isaac dwelled in Gerar.
7. And yt me of the place asked hi of his wife and he sayde yt she was his sister: for he feared to calle her his wife lest the me of the place shulde haue kylled hym for hir sake because she was bewtyfull to ye eye.
8. And it happened after he had bene there longe tyme yt Abimelech kinge of ye Philistias loked out at a wyndow and sawe Isaac sportinge with Rebecca his wife.
9. And Abimelech sende for Isaac and sayde: se she is of a suertie thi wife and why saydest thou yt she was thi sister? And Isaac saide vnto hi: I thoughte yt I mighte peradventure haue dyed for hir sake.
10. The fayde Abimelech: whi hast thou done this vnto vs? one of ye people myght lightely haue lyne by thy wife and so shuldest thou haue broughte synne vpon vs
11. Tha Abimelech charged all his people saynge: he yt toucheth this man or his wife shall surely dye for it.
12. And Isaac sowed in yt lade and founde in ye same yere an hudred bushels: for ye LORde blessed hi
13. and the man waxed mightye and wet forth and grewe till he was exceadinge great
14. yt he had possessio of shepe of oxe and a myghtie housholde: so yt the Philestians had envy at him:
15. In so moch yt they stopped and fylled vp with erth all the welles which his fathers servauntes dygged in his father Abrahams tyme.
16. Than sayde Abimelech vnto Isaac: gett the fro me for thou art myhhtier then we a greate deale.
17. Than Isaac departed thense and pitched his tente in the valey Gerar and dwelt there,
18. And Isaac digged agayne the welles of water which they dygged in the dayes of Abraha his father which the Philestias had stoppe after ye deth of Abraha and gaue the the same names which hys father gaue the.
19. As Isaacs seruautes dygged in the valey they founde a well of springynge water.
20. And the herdme of Gerar dyd stryue with Isaacs herdme saynge: the water is oures Than called he the well Eseck because they stroue with hym.
21. Than dygged they another well and they stroue for yt also. Therfore called he it Sitena.
22. And than he departed these and dygged a nother well for the which they stroue not: therfore called he it Rehoboth saige: ye LORde hath now made vs rowme and we are encreased vpo the erth.
23. Afterward departed he thece and came to Berseba
24. And the LORde apered vnto hi the same nyghte and sayde. I am the God of Abraha thy father feare not for I am with the and will blesse the and multiplye thy sede for my seruaute Abrahams sake.
25. And than he buylded an aulter there and called vpo the name of the LORde and there pitched his tente. And there Isaacs servauntes dygged a well.
26. Than came Abimelech to him fro Gerar and Ahusath his frende and Phicol his chefe captayne.
27. And Isaac sayde vnto the: wherfore come ye to me seige ye hate me and haue put me awaye fro you?
28. Than sayde they: we sawe that the LORde was with the and therfore we sayde that there shulde be an oothe betwixte vs ad the and that we wolde make a bonde with the:
29. yt thou shuldeste do vs no hurte as we haue not touched the and haue done vnto the nothinge but good and sed the awaye in peace: for thou art now the blessed of the LORde.
30. And he made the a feast and they ate ad droke.
31. And they rose vp by tymes in the mornynge and sware one to another. And Isaac sent the awaye. And they departed from him in peace.
32. And ye same daye came Isaacs servautes and tolde hi of a well which they had dygged: and sayde vnto hi that thei had founde water.
33. And he called it Seba wherfore the name of the cyte is called Berseba vnto this daye.
34. When Esau was.xl. yere olde he toke to wyfe Judith the doughter of Bely an Hethite and Busmath the doughter of Elon an Hethite
35. also which were dishobedient vnto Isaac and Rebecca.

== Genesis 27 ==
1. And it came to passe that Isaac wexed olde and his eyes were dymme so that he coude nat see. Tha called he Esau his eldest sonne and sayde vnto him: mi sonne. And he sayde vnto hym: heare am I.
2. And he sayde: beholde I am olde ad knowe not the daye of mi deth:
3. Now therfore take thi weapes thy quiver and thi bowe and gett the to the feldes and take me some venyson
4. and make me meate such as I loue and brynge it me and let me eat that my soull may blesse the before that I dye:
5. But Rebecca hard whe Isaac spake to Esau his sonne. And as soone as Esau was gone to the felde to catche venyson and to brige it
6. she spake vnto Iacob hir sonne sainge? Behold I haue herde thi father talkinge with Esau thy brother and saynge:
7. bringe me venyson and make me meate that I maye eate and blesse the before the LORde yer I dye.
8. Now therfore my sonne heare my voyce in that which I comaunde the:
9. gett the to the flocke and bringe me thece.ij. good kiddes and I will make meate of the for thi father soch as he loueth.
10. And thou shalt brige it to thi father and he shal eate yt he maye blysse the before his deth
11. Than sayde Iacob to Rebecca his mother. Beholde Esau mi brother is rugh and I am smooth.
12. Mi father shal peradueture fele me ad I shal seme vnto hi as though I wet aboute to begyle hi and so shall he brige a curse vpo me and not a blessige:
13. and his mother saide vnto him. Vppo me be thi curse my sonne only heare my voyce and goo and fetch me them.
14. And Iacob went ad fett them and brought them to his mother.And his mother made meate of them accordinge as his father loued
15. And she went and fett goodly rayment of hir eldest sonne Esau which she had in the house with hir and put them vpon Iacob hir yongest sonne
16. ad she put the skynnes vpon his hades and apon the smooth of his necke.
17. And she put ye meate and brede which she had made in the hode of hir sonne Iacob
18. And he went in to his father saynge: my father And he aswered: here am I who art thou my sonne?
19. And Iacob sayde vnto his father: I am Esau thy eldest sonne I haue done acordinge as thou baddest me vp and sytt and eate of my venyson that thi soule maye blesse me.
20. But Isaac sayde vnto his sonne. How cometh it that thou hast fownde it so quicly my sonne? He answered: The LORde thy god brought it to my hande.
21. Than sayde Isaac vnto Iacob: come nere and let me fele the my sonne whether thou be my sonne Esau or not.
22. Than went Iacob to Isaac his father and he felt him and sayde the voyce is Iacobs voyce but the hades ar ye hades of Esau.
23. And he knewe him not because his handes were rough as his brother Esaus handes: And so he blessed him.
24. And he axed him art thou my sonne Esau? And he sayde: that I am.
25. Than sayde he: brynge me and let me eate of my sonnes venyson that my soule maye blesse the. And he broughte him and he ate. And he broughte him wyne also and he dranke.
26. And his father Isaac sayde vnto him: come nere and kysse me my sonne.
27. And he wet to him and kissed him. And he smelled ye sauoure of his raymet and blessed hi and sayde See ye smell of my sone is as ye smell of a feld which the lorde hath blessed.
28. God geue the of ye dewe of heave and of the fatnesse of the erth and pletie of corne and wyne.
29. People be thy servauntes and natios bowe vnto the. Be lorde ouer thy brethre and thy mothers children stoupe vnto the. Cursed be he yt curseth the and lessed be he that blesseth the.
30. As soone as Isaac had made an end of blessig Iacob and Iacob was scace gone out fro the preasence of Isaac his father: then came Esau his brother fro his huntynge:
31. And had made also meate and brought it in vnto his father and sayde vnto him: Aryse my father and eate of thy sonnes venyson that thy soule maye blesse me.
32. Tha his father Isaac sayde vnto him. Who art thou? he answered I am thy eldest sonne Esau.
33. And Isaac was greatly astoyned out of mesure and sayde: Where is he then that hath huted venyson and broughte it me and I haue eaten of all before thou camest and haue blessed him ad he shall be blessed styll.
34. Whe Esau herde the wordes of his father he cryed out greatly and bitterly aboue mesure and sayde vnto his father: blesse me also my father.
35. And he sayde thy brother came with subtilte ad hath take awaye thy blessynge.
36. Than sayde he: He maye well be called Iacob for he hath vndermyned me now.ij. tymes fyrst he toke awaye my byrthrighte: and se now hath he taken awaye my blessynge also. And he sayde hast thou kepte neuer a blessynge for me?
37. Isaac answered and sayde vnto Esau: beholde I haue made him thi LORde and all his mothers childern haue I made his seruauntes. Moreouer wyth corne ad wyne haue I stablesshed him what ca I do vnto the now my sonne?
38. And Esau sayde vnto his father? hast thou but yt one blessynge my father? blesse me also my father: so lyfted vp Esau his voyce and wepte
39. Tha Isaac his father answered and sayde vnto himBeholde thy dwellynge place shall haue of the fatnesse of the erth and of the dewe of heauen fro aboue.
40. And wyth thy swerde shalt thou lyue and shalt be thy brothers seruaunte But the tyme will come when thou shalt gett the mastrye and lowse his yocke from of thy necke.
41. And Esau hated Iacob because of the blessynge yt his father blessed him with all and sayde in his harte: The dayes of my fathers sorowe are at hade for I will sley my brother Iacob.
42. And these wordes of Esau hir eldest sonne were told to Rebecca. And she sente ad called Iacob hir yongest sonne and sayde vnto hi: beholde thy brother Esau threatneth to kyll the:
43. Now therfore my sone heare my voyce make the redie and flee to Laba my brother at Haran
44. And tarie with him a while vntill thy brothers fearsnes be swaged and
45. vntill thy brothers wrath turne away from the and he forgett that which thou hast done to him. Tha will I sende and fett the awaye from thence. Why shulde I lose you both in one daye.
46. And Rebecca spake to Isaac: I am wery of my life for feare of the doughters of Heth. Yf Iacob take a wife of the doughters of Heth soch one as these are or of the doughters of the lande what lust shulde I haue to lyue.

== Genesis 28 ==
1. Than Isaac called Iacob his sonne and blessed him ad charged him and sayde vnto him: se thou take not a wife of the doughters of Canaan
2. but aryse ad gett the to Mesopotamia to the house of Bethuel thy mothers father: and there take the a wife of the doughters of Laban thi mothers brother.
3. And God allmightie blesse the increase the and multiplie the that thou mayst be a nombre of people
4. and geue the the blessynge of Abraham: both to the and to thy seed with the that thou mayst possesse the lade (wherein thou art a strangere) which God gaue vnto Abraham.
5. Thus Isaac sent forth Iacob to goo to Mesopotamia vnto Laban sonne of Bethuel the Sirien and brother to Rebecca Iacobs and Esaus mother.
6. When Esau sawe that Isaac had blessed Iacob and sent him to Mesopotamia to fett him a wife thence and that as he blessed him he gaue him a charge saynge: se thou take not a wife of the doughters of Canaan:
7. and that Iacob had obeyed his father and mother and was gone vnto Mesopotamia:
8. and seynge also that the doughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father:
9. Then went he vnto Ismael and toke vnto the wiues which he had Mahala the doughter of Ismael Abrahams sonne the sister of Nabaioth to be his wife.
10. Iacob departed from Berseba and went toward Haran
11. and came vnto a place and taried there all nyghte because the sonne was downe. And toke a stone of the place and put it vnder his heade and layde him downe in the same place to slepe.
12. And he dreamed: and beholde there stode a ladder apon the erth and the topp of it reached vpp to heaue. And se the angells of God went vp and downe apon it
13. yee ad the LORde stode apon it and sayde.I am the LORde God of Abraham thi father and the God of Isaac: The londe which thou slepest apon will I geue the and thy seed.
14. And thy seed shalbe as the dust of the erth: And thou shalt spreade abrode: west east north and south. And thorow the and thy seed shall all the kynreddes of the erth be blessed.
15. And se I am with the and wylbe thy keper in all places whother thou goost and wyll brynge ye agayne in to this lande: Nether will I leaue the vntill I haue made good all that I haue promysed the.
16. When Iacob was awaked out of his slepe he sayde: surely the LORde is in this place ad I was not aware.
17. And he was afrayde and sayde how fearfull is this place? it is none other but euen the house of God and the gate of heaue.
18. And Iacob stode vp early in the mornynge and toke the stone that he had layde vnder his heade and pitched it vp an ende and poured oyle on the topp of it.
19. And he called the name of the place Bethell for in dede the name of the citie was called Lus before tyme.
20. And Iacob vowed a vowe saynge: Yf God will be with me and wyll kepe me in this iourney which I goo and will geue me bread to eate and cloothes to put on
21. so that I come agayne vnto my fathers house in saftie: then shall the LORde be my God
22. and this stone which I haue sett vp an ende shalbe godes house And of all that thou shalt geue me will I geue the tenth vnto the.

== Genesis 29 ==
1. Then Iacob lyfte vp his fete and wet toward the east countre.
2. And as he loked aboute behold there was a well in the feld and.iij. flockes of shepe laye therby (for at that well were the flockes watered) and there laye a great stone at the well mouth
3. And the maner was to brynge the flockes thyther and to roull the stone fro the welles mouth and to water the shepe and to put the stone agayne vppon the wells mouth vnto his place.
4. And Iacob sayde vnto the: brethern whece be ye? and they sayde: of Haran ar we.
5. And he sayde vnto the: knowe ye Laban the sonne of Nahor. And they sayde: we knowe him.
6. And he sayde vnto the: is he in good health? And they sayde: he is in good health: and boholde his doughter Rahel cometh with ye shepe.
7. And he sayde: lo it is yet a great whyle to nyghte nether is it tyme yt the catell shulde be gathered together: water the shepe and goo and fede the.
8. And they sayde: we maye not vntill all ye flockes be brought together and the stone be roulled fro the wells mouth and so we water oure shepe.
9. Whyle he yet talked with the Rahel came with hir fathers shepe for she kepte them.
10. As soone As Iacob sawe Rahel the doughter of Laban his mothers brother and the shepe of Laban his mothers brother he went and rowled the stone fro the wells mouth and watered the shepe of Laba his mothers brother
11. And Iacob kyssed Rahel and lyfte vp his voyce and wepte:
12. and tolde her also yt he was hir fathers brother and Rebeccas sonne. The Rahel ranne and tolde hir father.
13. When Laban herd tell of Iacob his sisters sonne he ranne agaynst him and embraced hi and kyssed him ad broughte him in to his house. And the Iacob told Laba all ye matter
14. And the Laba sayde: well thou art my bone and my flesh. Abyde with me the space of a moneth.
15. And afterward Laban sayd vnto Iacob: though thou be my brother shuldest thou therfore serue me for nought?tell me what shall thi wages be?
16. And Laban had.ij. doughters the eldest called Lea and the yongest Rahel.
17. Lea was tender eyed: But Rahel was bewtifull ad well fauored.
18. And Iacob loued her well and sayde: I will serue the.vij. yere for Rahel thy yongest doughter.
19. And Laban answered: it is better yt I geue her the than to another man? byde therfore with me.
20. And Iacob serued.vij. yeres for Rahel and they semed vnto him but a fewe dayes for the loue he had to her.
21. And Iacob sayde vnto Laban geue me my wife that I maye lye with hir for the tyme appoynted me is come.
22. Than Laban bade all the men of that place and made a feast.
23. And when eue was come he toke Lea his doughter and broughte her to him and he went in vnto her.
24. And Laban gaue vnto his doughter Lea Zilpha his mayde to be hir seruaunte.
25. And when the mornynge was come beholde it was Lea. Than sayde he to Laban: wherfore hast thou played thus with me? dyd not I serue the for Rahel wherfore than hast thou begyled me?
26. Laban answered: it is not the maner of this place to marke the yongest before the eldest.
27. Passe out this weke and tha shall this also be geuen the for ye seruyce which thou shalt serue me yet.vij. yeres more.
28. And Iacob dyd eue so and passed out that weke and than he gaue hi Rahel his doughter to wyfe also.
29. And Laban gaue to Rahel his doughter Bilha his handmayde to be hir servaute.
30. So laye he by Rahel also and loued Rahel more than Lea and serued him yet.vij. yeres more.
31. When the LORde sawe that Lea was despised he made her frutefull: but Rahel was baren.
32. And Lea conceaued and bare a sonne ad called his name Rube for she sayde::the LORde hath loked apon my tribulation. And now my husbonde will loue me.
33. And she conceaued agayne and bare a sonne and sayde: the LORde hath herde that I am despised ad hath therfore geuen me this sonne also and she called him Simeon.
34. And she conceaued yet and bare a sonne ad sayde: now this once will my husbonde kepe me company because I haue borne him.iij. sonnes: and therfore she called his name Levi.
35. And she conceaued yet agayne and bare a sonne saynge? Now will I prayse the LORde: therfore she called his name Iuda and left bearynge.

== Genesis 30 ==
1. When Rahel sawe that she bare Iacob no childern she enuied hir sister and sayde vnto Iacob: geue me childern or ells I am but deed.
2. Than was Iacob wrooth with Rahel saynge: Am I in godes steade which kepeth fro the the frute of thi wobe?
3. The she sayde: here is my mayde Bilha: go in vnto her that she maye beare vpo my lappe that I maye be encreased by her.
4. And she gaue him Bilha hir hadmayde to wife. And Iacob wet in vnto her
5. And Bilha conceaued and bare Iacob a sonne.
6. Than sayde Rahel. God hath geuen sentece on my syde and hath also herde my voyce and hath geuen me a sonne. Therfore called she him Dan.
7. And Bilha Rahels mayde coceaued agayne and bare Iacob a nother sonne.
8. And Rahel sayde. God is turned and I haue made achaunge with my sister and haue gote ye vpper hade. And she called his name Nepthali
9. Whe Lea sawe that she had left bearinge she toke Silpha hir mayde and gaue her Iacob to wiffe.
10. And Silpha Leas made bare Iacob a sonne.
11. Than sayde Lea: good lucke: and called his name Gad.
12. And Silpha Leas mayde bare Iacob another sonne.
13. Tha sayd Lea: happy am I for the doughters will call me blessed. And called his name Asser.
14. And Rube wet out in the wheat haruest and foude mandragoras in the feldes and brought the vnto his mother Lea. Than sayde Rahel to Lea geue me of thy sonnes madragoras.
15. And Lea answered: is it not ynough yt thou hast take awaye my housbode but woldest take awaye my sonnes mandragoras also? Than sayde Rahel well let him slepe with the this nyghte for thy sonnes mandragoras.
16. And whe Iacob came from the feldes at euen Lea went out to mete him and sayde: come into me for I haue bought the with my sonnes mandragoras.And he slepte with her that nyghte.
17. And God herde Lea yt she coceaued and bare vnto Iacob yt.v. sonne.
18. Than sayde Lea. God hath geue me my rewarde because I gaue my mayde to my housbod and she called him Isachar.
19. And Lea coceaued yet agayne and bare Iacob the sexte sonne.
20. Than sayde she: God hath endewed me with a good dowry. Now will my housbond dwell with me because I haue borne him.vi. sonnes: and called his name Zabulo.
21. After that she bare a doughter and called her Dina.
22. And God remebred Rahel herde her and made her frutefull:
23. so that she coceaued and bare a sonne and sayde God hath take awaye my rebuke.
24. And she called his name Ioseph saynge The lorde geue me yet a nother sonne.
25. As soone as Rahel had borne Ioseph Iacob sayde to Laban: Sede me awaye yt I maye goo vnto myne awne place and cutre
26. geue me my wives and my childern for whome I haue serued the and let me goo; for thou knowest what seruyce I haue done the.
27. Than sayde Laban vnto hi: If I haue fownde fauoure in thy syghte (for I suppose yt the LORde hath blessed me for thy sake)
28. appoynte what thy rewarde shalbe and I will geue it ye.
29. But he sayde vnto hym thou knowest what seruyce I haue done ye and in what takynge thy catell haue bene vnder me:
30. for it was but litle that thou haddest before I came and now it is encreased in to a multitude and the LORDE hath blessed the for my sake.But now when shall I make provysion for myne awne house also?
31. And he sayde: what shall I geue the? And Iacob answerd: thou shalt geue me nothinge at all yf thou wilt do this one thinge for me: And then will I turne agayne and fede thy shepe and kepe them.
32. I will go aboute all thy shepe this daye and separate fro the all the shepe that are spotted and of dyverse coloures and all blacke shepe amonge the lambes and the partie and spotted amonge the kyddes: And then such shalbe my rewarde.
33. So shall my rightwesnes answere for me: when the tyme commeth that I shall receaue my rewarde of the: So that what soeuer is not speckeld and partie amonge the gootes and blacke amonge the lambes let that be theft with me.
34. Than sayde Laban: loo I am contete that it be acordinge as thou hast sayde.
35. And he toke out that same daye the he gootes that were partie and of dyuerse coloures and all the she gootes that were spotted and partie coloured and all that had whyte in the and all the blacke amonge the lambes: ad put the in the kepinge of his sonnes
36. and sett thre dayes ourney ibetwixte hiselfe and Iacob. And so Iacob kepte ye rest of Labas shepe.
37. Iacob toke roddes of grene popular hasell and of chestnottrees and pilled whyte strakes in the and made the white apere in the staues:
38. And he put the staues which he had pilled eue before ye shepe in the gutters and watrynge troughes whe the shepe came to drynke: yt they shulde coceaue whe they came to drynke.
39. And the shepe coceaued before the staues and brought forth straked spotted and partie.
40. The Iacob parted the labes and turned the faces of the shepe toward spotted thinges and toward all maner of blacke thinges thorow out the flockes of Laba. And he made him flockes of his owne by the selfe which he put not vnto the flockes of Laba.
41. And allwaye in the first buckinge tyme of the shepe Iacob put the staues before the shepe in the gutters yt they myghte conceaue before the staues
42. But in the latter buckynge tyme he put them not there: so the last brode was Labas and the first Iacobs.
43. And the man became excedynge ryche and had many shepe maydeseruauntes menseruauntes camels and asses.

== Genesis 31 ==
1. And Iacob herde the wordes of Labas sonnes how they sayde: Iacob hath take awaye all that was oure fathers and of oure fathers goodes hath he gote all this honoure.
2. And Iacob behelde the countenauce of Laban that it was not toward him as it was in tymes past.
3. And the LORde sayde vnto Iacob: turne agayne in to the lade of thy fathers and to thy kynred and I wilbe with ye.
4. Tha Iacob sent and called Rahel and Lea to the felde vnto his shepe
5. and sayde vnto the: I se youre fathers countenauce yt it is not toward me as in tymes past. Morouer ye God of my father hath bene with me.
6. And ye knowe how that I haue serued youre father with all my myghte.
7. And youre father hath disceaued me and chaunged my wages.x. tymes: But God suffred him not to hurte me.
8. When he sayde the spotted shalbe thy wages tha all the shepe barespotted. Yf he sayde the straked shalbe thi rewarde tha bare all the shepe straked:
9. thus hath God take awaye youre fathers catell and geue the me.
10. For in buckynge tyme I lifted vp myne eyes and sawe in a dreame: and beholde the rammes that bucked the shepe were straked spotted and partie.
11. And the angell of God spake vnto me in a dreame saynge: Iacob. And I answered: here am I.
12. And he sayde: lyfte vp thyne eyes ad see how all therames that leape vpon the shepe are straked spotted and partie: for I haue sene all that Laban doth vnto ye.
13. I am ye god of Bethell where thou anoynteddest the stone ad where thou vowdest a vowe vnto me. Now aryse and gett the out of this countre ad returne vnto the lade where thou wast borne.
14. Than answered Rahel and Lea and sayde vnto him: we haue no parte nor enheritaunce in oure fathers house
15. he cownteth us eue as straungers for he hath solde vs and hath euen eaten vp the price of vs.
16. Moreouer all the riches which God hath take from oure father that is oures and oure childerns. Now therfore what soeuer God hath sayde vnto the that doo.
17. Tha Iacob rose vp and sett his sones and wiues vp vpon camels
18. and caried away all his catell and all his substace which he had gotte in Mesopotamia for to goo to Isaac his father vnto the lade of Canaan.
19. Laba was gone to shere his shepe and Rahel had stolle hir fathers ymages.
20. And Iacob went awaye vnknowynge to Laban the Sirie and tolde him not yt he fled.
21. So fled he and all yt he had and made him self redy and passed ouer the ryuers and sett his face streyght towarde the mounte Gilead.
22. Apo the thirde day after was it tolde Laba yt Iacob was fled.
23. Tha he toke his brethre with him and folowed after him.vij. dayes iourney and ouer toke him at the mounte Gilead.
24. And God came to Laba the Siria in a dreame by nyghte and sayde vnto him: take hede to thi selfe that thou speake not to Iacob oughte save good.
25. And Laba ouer toke Iacob: and Iacob had pitched his tete in yt mounte. And Laban with his brethern pitched their tete also apon the mounte Gilead.
26. Than sayde Laba to Iacob: why hast thou this done vnknowynge to me and hast caried awaye my doughters as though they had bene take captyue with swerde?
27. Wherfore wentest thou awaye secretly vnknowne to me and didest not tell me yt I myghte haue broughte yt on the waye with myrth syngynge tymrells and harppes
28. and hast not suffred me to kysse my childern and my doughters. Thou wast a fole to do
29. it for I am able to do you evell. But the God of youre father spake vnto me yesterdaye saynge take hede tha thou speake not to Iacob oughte saue goode.
30. And now though thou wetest thi waye because thou logest after thi fathers house yet wherfore hast thou stollen my goddes?
31. Iacob answered and sayde to Laba: because I was afrayed and thought that thou woldest haue take awaye thy doughters fro me.
32. But with whome soeuer thou fyndest thy goddes let him dye here before oure brethre. Seke that thine is by me and take it to the: for Iacob wist not that Rahel had stolle the.
33. Tha wet Laba in to Iacobs tete and in to Leas tete and in to.ij. maydens tentes: but fownde the not. Tha wet he out of Leas tete and entred in to Rahels tete.
34. And Rahel toke the ymages and put them in the camels strawe and sate doune apo the. And Laba serched all the tete: but fownde the not.
35. Tha sayde she to hir father: my lorde be not angrye yt I ca not ryse vp before the for the disease of weme is come apon me. So searched he but foude the not.
36. Iacob was wrooth and chode with Laba: Iacob also answered and sayde to him: what haue I trespaced or what haue I offended that thou foloweddest after me?
37. Thou hast searched all my stuffe and what hast thou founde of all thy housholde stuffe? put it here before thi brethern and myne and let the iudge betwyxte vs both.
38. This xx. yere yt I haue bene wyth the thy shepe and thy gootes haue not bene baren and the rammes of thi flocke haue I not eate.
39. What soeuer was torne of beastes I broughte it not vnto ye but made it good mysilf: of my hade dydest thou requyre it whether it was stollen by daye or nyghte
40. Moreouer by daye the hete consumed me and the colde by nyghte and my slepe departed fro myne eyes.
41. Thus haue I bene.xx. yere in thi house and serued the.xiiij. yeres forthy.ij. doughters and vi. yere for thi shepe and thou hast changed my rewarde.x. tymes.
42. And excepte the God of my father the God of Abraha and the God whome Isaac feareth had bene with me: surely thou haddest sent me awaye now all emptie. But God behelde my tribulation and the laboure of my handes: and rebuked the yester daye.
43. Laban answered ad sayde vnto Iacob: the doughters are my doughters and the childern ar my childern and the shepe are my shepe ad all that thou seist is myne. And what can I do this daye vnto these my doughters or vnto their childern which they haue borne?
44. Now therfore come on let us make a bonde I and thou together and let it be a wytnesse betwene the and me.
45. Than toke Iacob a stone and sett it vp an ende
46. ad sayde vnto his brethern gather stoones And they toke stoones ad made an heape and they ate there vpo the heape.
47. And Laba called it Iegar Sahadutha but Iacob called it Gylead.
48. Than sayde Laban: this heape be witnesse betwene the and me this daye (therfore is it called Gilead)
49. and this totehill which the lorde seeth (sayde he) be wytnesse betwene me and the when we are departed one from a nother:
50. that thou shalt not vexe my doughters nether shalt take other wyves vnto them. Here is no man with vs: beholde God is wytnesse betwixte the and me.
51. And Laban sayde moreouer to Iacob: beholde this heape and this marke which I haue sett here betwyxte me and the:
52. this heape be wytnesse and also this marcke that I will not come ouer this heape to the ad thou shalt not come ouer this heape ad this marke to do any harme.
53. The God of Abraham the God of Nahor and the God of theyr fathers be iudge betwixte vs.And Iacob sware by him that his father Isaac feared.
54. Then Iacob dyd sacrifyce vpon the mounte and called his brethern to eate breed. And they ate breed and taried all nyghte in the hyll.
55. And early in the mornynge Laban rose vp and kyssed his childern and his doughters and blessed the and departed and wet vnto his place agayne.

== Genesis 32 ==
1. But Iacob went forth on his iourney. And the angells of God came and mett him.
2. And when Iacob sawe them he sayde: this is godes hoost: and called the name of that same place Mahanaim.
3. Iacob sente meessengers before him to Esau his brother vnto the lande of Seir and the felde of Edom.
4. And he comaunded them saynge: se that ye speake after this maner to my lorde Esau: thy seruaunte Iacob sayth thus. I haue sogerned ad bene a straunger with Laban vnto this tyme:
5. and haue gotten oxen asses and shepe menservauntes and wemanseruauntes and haue sent to shewe it mi lorde that I may fynde grace in thy syghte.
6. And the messengers came agayne to Iacob sainge: we came vnto thi brother Esau and he cometh ageynst the and.iiij. hundred men with hi.
7. Than was Iacob greatlye afrayde and wist not which waye to turne him selfe and devyded the people that was with him and the shepe oxen and camels in to.ij. companies
8. and sayde: Yf Esau come to the one parte and smyte it the other may saue it selfe.
9. And Iacob sayde: O god of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac: LORde which saydest vnto me returne vnto thy cuntre and to thy kynrede and I will deall wel with the.
10. I am not worthy of the leaste of all the mercyes and treuth which thou hast shewed vnto thy seruaunte. For with my staf came I over this Iordane and now haue Igoten.ij. droves
11. Delyver me from the handes of my brother Esau for I feare him: lest he will come and smyte the mother with the childeru.
12. Thou saydest that thou woldest surely do me good and woldest make mi seed as the sonde of the see which can not be nombred for multitude.
13. And he taried there that same nyghte and toke of that which came to hande a preasent vnto Esau his brother:
14. ij hundred she gootes ad xx he gootes: ij hundred shepe and xx rammes:
15. thyrtye mylch camels with their coltes: xl kyne ad x bulles: xx she asses ad foles
16. and delyuered them vnto his seruauntes euery drooue by them selues ad sayde vnto them: goo forth before me and put a space betwyxte euery drooue.
17. And he comaunded the formest sayngeWhe Esau my brother meteth the ad axeth the saynge: whose seruaute art thou and whither goost thou and whose ar these that goo before ye:
18. thou shalt say they be thy seruaunte Iacobs and are a present sent vnto my lorde Esau and beholde he him selfe cometh after vs.
19. And so comaunded he the seconde ad euen so the thirde and lykewyse all that folowed the drooues sainge of this maner se that ye speake vnto Esau whe ye mete him
20. ad saye more ouer. Beholde thy seruaunte Iacob cometh after vs for he sayde. I will pease his wrath with the present yt goth before me and afterward I will see him myself so peradventure he will receaue me to grace.
21. So went the preset before him ad he taried all that nyghte in the tente
22. ad rose vp the same nyghte ad toke his.ij. wyves and his.ij. maydens and his.xi. sonnes and went ouer the foorde Iabok.
23. And he toke them ad sent the ouer the ryuer ad sent ouer that he had
24. ad taried behinde him selfe alone.And there wrastled a man with him vnto the breakynge of the daye.
25. And when he sawe that he coude not prevayle agaynst him he smote hi vnder the thye and the senowe of Iacobs thy shranke as he wrastled with him.
26. And he sayde: let me goo for the daye breaketh. And he sayde: I will not lett the goo excepte thou blesse me.
27. And he sayde vnto him: what is thy name? He answered: Iacob.
28. And he sayde: thou shalt be called Iacob nomore but Israell. For thou hast wrastled with God and with men ad hast preuayled.
29. And Iacob asked him sainge tell me thi name. And he sayde wherfore dost thou aske after my name? and he blessed him there.
30. And Iacob called the name of the place Peniel for I haue sene God face to face and yet is my lyfe reserved.
31. And as he went ouer Peniel the sonne rose vpon him and he halted vpon his thye:
32. wherfore the childern of Israell eate not of the senow that shrancke vnder the thye vnto this daye: because that he smote Iacob vnder the thye in the senow that shroncke.

== Genesis 33 ==
1. Iacob lyfte vp his eyes and sawe hys brother Esau come and with him.iiij. hundred men. And he deuyded the childern vnto Lea and vnto Rahel and vnto ye ij. maydens.
2. And he put the maydens ad their childern formest ad Lea and hir childern after and Rahel ad Ioseph hindermost.
3. And he went before them and fell on the grownde, vij. tymes vntill he came vnto his brother.
4. Esau ranne agaynst him and enbraced hym and fell on his necke and kyssed him and they wepte.
5. And he lifte vp his eyes and sawe the wyves and their childern and sayde: what are these which thou there hast? And he sayde: they are the childern which God hath geuen thy seruaunte.
6. Than came the maydens forth ad dyd their obaysaunce.
7. Lea also and hir childern came and dyd their obaysaunce. And last of all came Ioseph and Rahel and dyd their obaysaunce.
8. And he sayde: what meanyst thou with all ye drooues which I mett. And he answered: to fynde grace in the syghte of my lorde.
9. And Esau sayde: I haue ynough my brother kepe that thou hast vnto thy silf.
10. Iacob answered: oh nay but yf I haue founde grace in thy syghte receaue my preaset of my hade: for I haue sene thy face as though I had sene ye face of God: wherfore receaue me to grace
11. and take my blessynge that I haue brought the for God hath geuen it me frely. And I haue ynough of all thynges. And so he compelled him to take it.
12. And he sayde: let us take oure iourney and goo and I will goo in thy copany.
13. And he sayde vnto him: my lorde knoweth that I haue tendre childern ewes and kyne with yonge vnder myne hande which yf men shulde ouerdryue but euen one daye the hole flocke wolde dye.
14. Let my lorde therfore goo before his servaunte and I will dryue fayre and softly accordynge as the catell that goth before me and the childern be able to endure: vntill I come to mi lorde vnto Seir.
15. And Esau sayde: let me yet leaue some of my folke with the. And he sayde: what neadeth it? let me fynde grace in the syghte of my lorde
16. So Esau went his waye agayne yt same daye vnto Seir.
17. And Iacob toke his iourney toward Sucoth and bylt him an house and made boothes for his catell: wherof the name of the place is called Sucoth.
18. And Iacob went to Salem to ye cytie of Sichem in the lande of Canaa after that he was come from Mesopotamia and pitched before the cyte
19. and bought a parcell of ground where he pitched his tent of the childern of Hemor Sichems father for an hundred lambes.
20. And he made there an aulter and there called vpon the myghtie God of Israell.

== Genesis 34 ==
1. Dina the doughter of Lea which she bare vnto Iacob went out to see the doughters of the lande.
2. And Siche the sonne of Hemor the Heuite lorde of the countre sawe her and toke her and laye with her and forced her:
3. and his harte laye vnto Dina ye doughter of Iacob. And he loued yt damsell and spake kidly vnto her
4. and spake vnto his father Hemor saynge gett me this mayde vnto my wyfe.
5. And Iacob herde that he had defyled Dina his doughter but his sonnes were with the catell in the felde and therfore he helde his peace vntill they were come.
6. Then Hemor the father of Sichem went out vnto Iacob to come with him.
7. And the sonnes of Iacob came out of the felde as soone as they herde it for it greued them and they were not a litle wrooth because he had wrought folie in Israell in that he had lyen with Iacobs doughter which thinge oughte not to be done.
8. And Hemor comened with the sainge? the soule of my sonne Siche logeth for youre doughter geue her him to wyfe
9. and make mariages with vs: geue youre doughters vnto vs ad take oure doughters vnto you
10. and dwell with vs and the lande shall be at youre pleasure dwell and do youre busynes and haue youre possessions there in.
11. And Sichem sayde vnto hyr father and hir brethern: let me fynde grace in youre eyes and what soeuer ye apoynte me that will I geue.
12. Axe frely of me both the dowry and gyftes and I will geue acordynge as ye saye vnto me and geue me the damsell to wyfe.
13. Then the sonnes of Iacob answered to Sichem ad Hemor his father deceytefully because he had defyled Dina their syster.
14. And they sayde vnto them we can not do this thinge yt we shulde geue oure syster to one that is vncircumcysed for that were a shame vnto us.
15. Only in this will we consent vnto you? Yf ye will be as we be that all the men childern amonge you be circumcysed
16. tha will we geue oure doughter to you and take youres to vs and will dwell with you and be one people.
17. But and yf ye will not harken vnto vs to be circumcysed than will we take oure doughter and goo oure wayes.
18. And their wordes pleased Hemor and Sichem his sonne.
19. And the yonge man deferde not for to do the thinge because he had a lust to Iacobs doughter: he was also most sett by of all that were in his fathers house.
20. Tha Hemor and Sichem went vnto the gate of their cyte and comened with the men of their cyte sayncte.
21. These men ar peasable with us and will dwell in the lade and do their occupatio therin And in the land is rowme ynough for the let us take their doughters to wyues and geue them oures:
22. only herin will they consent vnto vs for to dwell with vs and to be one people: yf all the men childern that are amonge vs be circumcysed as they are.
23. Their goodes and their substance and all their catell are oures only let vs consente vnto them that they maye dwell with vs.
24. And vnto Hemor and Sichem his sonneharkened all that went out at the gate of his cyte. And all the men childern were circumcysed what soeuer went out at the gates of his cyte.
25. And the third daye when it was paynefull to them ij. of the sonnes of Iacob Simeon and Leui Dinas brethren toke ether of them his swerde and went in to the cyte boldly and slewe all yt was male
26. and slewe also Hemor and Sichem his sonne with the edge of the swerde ad toke Dina their sister out of Sichems house and went their waye.
27. Than came the sonnes of Iacob vpon the deede and spoyled the cyte because they had defyled their sister:
28. and toke their shepe oxen asses and what so euer was in the cyte and also in ye feldes
29. And all their goodes all their childern and their wyues toke they captyue and made havock of all that was in the houses.
30. And Iacob sayde to Simeon and Leui: ye haue troubled me ad made me styncke vnto the inhabitatours of the lande both to the Canaanytes and also vnto the Pherezites. And I am fewe in nombre. Wherfore they shall gather them selves together agaynst me and sley me and so shall I and my house be dystroyed.
31. And they answered: shuld they deall with oure sister as wyth an whoore?

== Genesis 35 ==
1. And God sayd vnto Iacob aryse ad get the vp to Bethell and dwell there. And make there an aulter vnto God that apeared vnto the when thou fleddest from Esau thy brother.
2. Than sayd Iacob vnto his housholde and to all yt were with him put away the strauge goddes that are amonge you and make youre selues cleane and chaunge youre garmetes
3. and let vs aryse and goo vp to Bethell yt I maye make an aulter there vnto God which herde me in the daye of my tribulatio and was wyth me in the waye which I went.
4. And they gaue vnto Iacob all the straunge goddes which were vnder their handes ad all their earynges which were in their eares and Iacob hyd them vnder an ooke at Sichem.
5. And they departed. And the feare of God fell vpon the cyties that were rounde aboute them that they durst not folowe after the sonnes of Iacob.
6. So came Iacob to Lus in the lande of Canaan otherwise called Bethell with all the people that was with him.
7. And he buylded there an aulter and called the place Elbethell: because that God appered vnto him there when he fled from his brother.
8. Than dyed Deborr Rebeccas norse and was buryed benethe Bethell vnder an ooke. And the name of it was called the ooke of lamentation.
9. And God appeared vnto Iacob agayne after he came out of Mesopotamia and blessed him
10. and sayde vnto him: thy name is Iacob. Notwithstondynge thou shalt be nomore called Iacob but Israel shalbe thy name. And so was his name called Israell.
11. And God sayde vnto him: I am God allmightie growe and multiplye: for people and a multitude of people shall sprynge of the yee ad kynges shall come out of they loynes.
12. And the lande which I gaue Abraha and Isaac will I geue vnto the and vnto thi seed after the will I geue it also.
13. And god departed fro him in the place where he talked with him.
14. And Iacob set vp a marke in the place where he talked with him: euen a pilloure of stone and powred drynkeoffringe theron and powred also oyle theron
15. and called the name of the place where God spake with him Bethell.
16. And they departed from Bethel and when he was but a feld brede from Ephrath Rahel began to trauell. And in travelynge she was in perell.
17. And as she was in paynes of hir laboure the mydwyfe sayde vnto her: feare not for thou shalt haue this sonne also.
18. Then as hir soule was a departinge that she must dye: she called his name Ben Oni. But his father called him Ben Iamin.
19. And thus dyed Rahel ad was buryed in the waye to Ephrath which now is called Bethlehem.
20. And Iacob sett vp a piller apon hir graue which is called Rahels graue piller vnto this daye.
21. And Israell went thece and pitched vp his tent beyonde the toure of Eder.
22. And it chaunced as Israel dwelt in that lande that Ruben went and laye with Bilha his fathers concubyne and it came to Israels eare. The sonnes of Iacob were.xij. in nombre.
23. The sonnes of Lea. Ruben Iacobs eldest sonne and Simeo Leui Iuda Isachar and Zabulon
24. The sonnes of Rahel: Ioseph and Ben Iamin.
25. The sonnes of Bilha Rahels mayde: Dan and Nepthali.
26. The sonnes of Zilpha Leas mayde Gad and Aser. Thes are the sones of Iacob which were borne him in Mesopotamia.
27. Then Iacob went vnto Isaac his father to Mamre a pricipall cyte otherwise called Hebron: where Abraha and Isaac sogeorned as straungers.
28. And the dayes of Isaac were an hundred and.lxxx. yeres:
29. and than fell he seke and dyed ad was put vnto his people: beynge olde and full of dayes. And his sonnes Esau ad Iacob buried him.

== Genesis 36 ==
1. These are the generations of Esau which is called Edo.
2. Esau toke his wyues of the doughters of Canaan Ada the doughter of Elon an Hethite and Ahalibama the doughter of Ana which Ana was the sonne of Zibeon an heuyte
3. And Basmath Ismaels doughter and sister of Nebaioth.
4. And Ada bare vnto Esau Eliphas: and Basmath bare Reguel:
5. And Ahalibama bare Ieus Iaelam and Rorah. These are the sonnes of Esau which were borne him in the lande of Canaan.
6. And Esau toke his wyues his sonnes and doughters and all the soules of his house: his goodes and all his catell and all his substance which he had gott in the land of Canaan ad went in to a countre awaye from his brother Iacob:
7. for their ryches was so moch that they coude not dwell together and that the land where in they were straungers coude not receaue the: because of their catell.
8. Thus dwelt Esau in moute Seir which Esau is called Edo
9. These are the generations of Esau father of the Edomytes in mounte Seir
10. and these are the names of Esaus sonnes: Eliphas the sonne of Ada the wife of Esau ad Reguel the sonne of Basmath the wife of Esau also.
11. And the sonnes of Eliphas were. Theman Omar Zepho Gactham and kenas.
12. And thimna was concubyne to Eliphas Esaus sonne and bare vnto Eliphas Amalech. And these be the sonnes of Ada Esaus wyfe.
13. And these are the sonnes of Reguel: Nahath Serah Samma and Misa: these were the sonnes of Basmath Esaus wyfe.
14. And these were the sonnes of Ahalibama Esaus wyfe the doughter of Ana sonne of Zebeo which she bare vnto Esau: Ieus Iealam and Korah.
15. These were dukes of the sonnes of Esau. The childern of Eliphas the first sone of Esau were these: duke Theman duke Omar duke Zepho duke Kenas
16. duke Korah duke Gaetham and duke Amalech: these are ye dukes that came of Eliphas in the lande of Edom ad these were the sonnes of Ada.
17. These were the childern of Requel. Esaus sonne: duke Nahath duke Serah duke Samma duke Misa. These are the dukes that came of Reguel in the lande of Edom ad these were the sonnes of Basmath Esaus wyfe.
18. These were the childern of Ahalibama Esaus wife: duke Ieus duke Iaelam duke Korah these dukes came of Ahalibama ye doughter of Ana Esaus wife.
19. These are the childern of Esau and these are the dukes of them: which Esau is called Edom:
20. These are the childern of Seir the Horite the in habitoure of the lande: Lothan Sobal Zibeon Ana
21. Dison Eser and Disan. These are the dukes of ye horites the childern of Seir in the lande of Edom.
22. And the childern of Lothan were: Hori and Hemam. And Lothans sister was called Thimna.
23. The childern of Sobal were these: Alvan Manahath Ebal Sepho and Onam.
24. These were the childern of Zibeo. Aia and ana this was yt Ana yt foude ye mules in ye wildernes as he fed his father Zibeons asses.
25. The childern of Ana were these. Dison and Ahalibama ye doughter of Ana.
26. These are the childern of Dison. Hemdan Esban Iethran and Chera.
27. The childern of Ezer were these Bilhan Seavan and Akan.
28. The childern of Disan were: Vzand Aran.
29. These are the dukes that came of Hori: duke Lothan duke Sobal duke Zibeo duke Ana
30. duke Dison duke Ezer duke Disan. These be the dukes that came of Hory in their dukedos in the land of Seir.
31. These are the kynges that reigned in the lande of Edom before there reigned any kynge amonge the childern of Israel.
32. Bela the sonne of Beor reigned in Edomea and the name of his cyte was Dinhaba.
33. And when Bela dyed Iobab the sonne of Serah out of Bezara reigned in his steade.
34. When Iobab was dead Husam of the lande of Themany reigned in his steade.
35. And after the deth of Husam Hadad the sonne of Bedad which stewe the Madianytes in the feld of the Moabytes reigned in his steade and the name of his cyte was Avith.
36. Whe Hadad was dead Samla of Masteka reigned in his steade.
37. Whe Samla was dead Saul of the ryver Rehoboth reigned in his steade.
38. When Saul was dead Baalhanan the sonne of Achbor reigned in his steade.
39. And after the deth of Baal Hanan the sonne of Achbor Hadad reigned in his steade and the name of his cyte was Pagu. And his wifes name Mehetabeel the doughter of matred the doughter of Mesaab.
40. These are the names of the dukes that came of Esau in their kynreddds places and names: Duke Thimma duke Alua duke Ietheth
41. duke Ahalibama duke Ela duke Pinon
42. duke Kenas duke Theman duke Mibzar
43. duke Magdiel duke Iram. These be the dukes of Edomea in their habitations in the lande of their possessions. This Esau is the father of the Edomytes.

== Genesis 37 ==
1. And Iacob dwelt in the lande wherein his father was a straunger yt is to saye in the lande of Canaan.
2. And these are the generations of Iacob: when Ioseph was.xvij. yere olde he kepte shepe with his brethren and the lad was with the sonnes of Bilha and of Zilpha his fathers wyues. And he brought vnto their father an euyll saynge yt was of them.
3. And Israel loued Ioseph more than all his childern because he begat hym in his olde age and he made him a coote of many coloures.
4. When his brothren sawe that their father loued him more than all his brethern they hated him and coude not speke one kynde worde vnto him.
5. Moreouer Ioseph dreamed a dreawe and tolde it his brethren: wherfore they hated him yet the more.
6. And he sayde vnto them heare I praye yow this dreame which I haue dreamed:
7. Beholde we were makynge sheues in the felde: and loo my shefe arose and stode vpright and youres stode rounde aboute and made obeysaunce to my shefe.
8. Than sayde his brethren vnto him: what shalt thou be oure kynge or shalt thou reigne ouer us? And they hated hi yet the more because of his dreame and of his wordes.
9. And he dreamed yet another dreame and told it his brethren saynge: beholde I haue had one dreame more: me thought the sonne and the moone and.xi. starres made obaysaunce to me.
10. And when he had told it vnto his father and his brethern his father rebuked him and sayde vnto him: what meaneth this dreame which thou hast dreamed: shall I and thy mother and thy brethren come and fall on the grounde before the?
11. And his brethern hated him but his father noted the saynge.
12. His brethren went to kepe their fathers shepe in Sichem
13. and Israell sayde vnto Ioseph: do not thy brethern kepe in Sichem? come that I may send ye to the. And he answered here am I
14. And he sayde vnto him: goo and see whether it be well with thy brethren and the shepe and brynge me worde agayne: And sent him out of the vale of Hebron for to go to Sichem.
15. And a certayne man founde him wandrynge out of his waye in the felde ad axed him what he soughte.
16. And he answered: I seke my brethren tell me I praye the where they kepe shepe
17. And the man sayde they are departed hece for I herde them say let vs goo vnto Dothan. Thus went Ioseph after his brethren and founde them in Dothan.
18. And whe they sawe him a farr of before he came at them they toke councell agaynst him for to sley him
19. and sayde one to another Beholde this dreamer cometh
20. come now and let us sley him and cast him in to some pytt and let vs saye that sonne wiked beast hath deuoured him and let us see what his dreames wyll come to.
21. When Ruben herde that he wet aboute to ryd him out of their handes and sayde let vs not kyll him.
22. And Ruben sayde moreouer vnto them shed not his bloude but cast him in to this pytt that is in the wildernes and laye no handes vpon him: for he wolde haue rydd him out of their handes and delyuered him to his father agayne.
23. And as soone as Ioseph was come vnto his brethren they strypte him out of his gay coote that was vpon him
24. and they toke him and cast him in to a pytt: But the pytt was emptie and had no water therein.
25. And they satt them doune to eate brede. And as they lyft vp their eyes and loked aboute there came a companye of Ismaelites from Gilead and their camels lade with spicery baulme and myrre and were goynge doune in to Egipte.
26. Than sayde Iuda to his brethre what avayleth it that we sley oure brother and kepe his bloude secrett?
27. come on let vs sell him to the Ismaelites and let not oure handes be defyled vpon him: for he is oure brother and oure flesh. And his brethren were content.
28. Than as the Madianites marchaunt men passed by they drewe Ioseph out of the pytt and sold him vnto the Ismaelites for.xx. peces of syluer.And they brought him into Egipte.
29. And when Ruben came agayne vnto the pytt and founde not Ioseph there he rent his cloothes
30. and went agayne vnto his brethern saynge: the lad is not yonder and whether shall I goo?
31. And they toke Iosephs coote ad kylled a goote and dypped the coote in the bloud.
32. And they sent that gay coote and caused it to be brought vnto their father and sayd: This haue we founde: se whether it be thy sones coote or no.
33. And he knewe it saynge: it is my sonnes coote a wicked beast hath deuoured him and Ioseph is rent in peces.
34. And Iacob rent his cloothes ad put sacke clothe aboute his loynes and sorowed for his sonne a longe season.
35. Than came all his sonnes ad all his doughters to comforte him. And he wold not be comforted but sayde: I will go doune in to ye grave vnto my sonne mornynge. And thus his father wepte for him.
36. And the Madianytes solde him in Egipte vnto Putiphar a lorde of Pharaos: and his chefe marshall.

== Genesis 38 ==
1. And it fortuned at that tyme that Iudas went from his brethren and gatt him to a man called Hira of Odollam
2. and there he sawe the doughter of a man called Sua a Canaanyte. And he toke her ad went in vnto her.
3. And she conceaued and bare a sonne and called his name Er.
4. And she conceaued agayne and bare a sonne and called him Onan.
5. And she conceaued the thyrde tyme and bare a sonne whom she called Scla: and he was at Chesyb when she bare hem.
6. And Iudas gaue Er his eldest sonne a wife whose name was Thamar.
7. But this Er Iudas eldest sonne was wicked in the syghte of the LORde wherfore the LORde slewe him.
8. Than sayde Iudas vnto Onan: goo in to thi brothers wyfe and Marie her and styrre vp seed vnto thy brother.
9. And when Onan perceaued that the seed shulde not be his: therfore when he went in to his brothers wife he spylled it on the grounde because he wold not geue seed vnto his brother.
10. And the thinge which he dyd displeased the LORde wherfore he slew him also.
11. Than sayde Iudas to Thamar his doughter in lawe: remayne a wydow at thi fathers house tyll Sela my sonne be growne: for he feared lest he shulde haue dyed also as his brethren did. Thus went Thamar and dwelt in hir fathers house.
12. And in processe of tyme the doughter of Sua Iudas wife dyed. Than Iudas when he had left mornynge went vnto his shepe sherers to Thimnath with his frende Hira of Odollam.
13. And one told Thamar saynge: beholde thy father in lawe goth vp to Thimnath to shere his shepe.
14. And she put hyr wydows garmetes of from her and couered her with a clooke and disgyssed herself: And sat her downe at the entrynge of Enaim which is by the hye wayes syde to Thimnath for because she sawe that Sela was growne and she was not geue vnto him to wife.
15. When Iuda sawe her he thought it had bene an hoore because she had couered hyr face.
16. And turned to her vnto the waye and sayde come I praye the let me lye with the for he knewe not that it was his doughter in lawe. And she sayde what wylt thou gyue me for to lye with me?
17. Tha sayde he I will sende the a kydd fro the flocke. She answered Than geue me a pledge till thou sende it.
18. Than sayde he what pledge shall I geue the? And she sayde: they sygnett thy necke lace and thy staffe that is in thy hande. And he gaue it her and lay by her and she was with child by him.
19. And she gatt her vp and went and put her mantell from her ad put on hir widowes rayment agayne.
20. And Iudas sent the kydd by his neybure of Odollam for to fetch out his pledge agayne from the wifes hande. But he fownde her not.
21. Than asked he the men of the same place saynge: where is the whoore that satt at Enaim in the waye? And they sayde: there was no whoore here.
22. And he came to Iuda agayne saynge: I can not fynde her and also the men of the place sayde: that there was no whoore there.
23. And Iuda sayde: let her take it to her lest we be shamed: for I sente the kydd and thou coudest not fynde her.
24. And it came to passe that after.iij. monethes one tolde Iuda saynge: Thamar thy doughter in lawe hath played the whoore and with playnge the whoore is become great with childe. And Iuda sayde: brynge her forth ad let her be brente.
25. And when they brought her forth she sent to her father in lawe saynge: by the ma vnto whome these thinges pertayne am I with childe. And sayd also: loke whose are this seall necklace and staffe.
26. And Iuda knewe them saynge: she is more rightwes tha I because I gaue her not to Sela my sone. But he laye with her nomore.
27. When tyme was come that she shulde be delyuered beholde there was.ij. twynnes in hyr wobe.
28. And as she traveled the one put out his hande and the mydwife toke and bownde a reed threde aboute it saynge: this wyll come out fyrst.
29. But he plucked his hande backe agayne and his brother came out. And she sayde: wherfore hast thou rent a rent vppon the? and called him Pharez.
30. And afterward came out his brother that had the reade threde about his hade which was called Zarah.

== Genesis 39 ==
1. Ioseph was brought vnto Egipte ad Putiphar a lorde of Pharaos: ad his chefe marshall an Egiptian bought him of ye Ismaelites which brought hi thither
2. And the LORde was with Ioseph and he was a luckie felowe and continued in the house of his master the Egiptian.
3. And his master sawe that the ORde was with him and that the LORde made all that he dyd prosper in his hande:
4. Wherfore he founde grace in his masters syghte and serued him. And his master made him ruelar of his house and put all that he had in his hande.
5. And as soone as he had made him ruelar ouer his house ad ouer all that he had the LORde blessed this Egiptians house for Iosephs sake and the blessynge of the LORde was vpon all that he had: both in the house and also in the feldes.
6. And therfore he left all that he had in Iosephs hande and loked vpon nothinge that was with him saue only on the bread which he ate. And Ioseph was a goodly persone and a well favored
7. And it fortuned after this that his masters wife cast hir eyes vpon Ioseph and sayde come lye with me.
8. But he denyed and sayde to her: Beholde my master woteth not what he hath in the house with me but hath commytted all that he hath to my hande
9. He him selfe is not greatter in the house than I ad hath kepte nothige fro me but only the because thou art his wife. How than cam I do this great wykydnes for to synne agaynst God?
10. And after this maner spake she to Ioseph daye by daye: but he harkened not vnto her to slepe nere her or to be in her company.
11. And it fortuned aboute the same season that Ioseph entred in to the house to do his busynes: and there was none of the houshold by in the house.
12. And she caught him by the garment saynge: come slepe with me. And he left his garment in hir hande ad fled and gott him out
13. when she sawe that he had left his garmet in hir hande and was fled out
14. she called vnto the men of the house and tolde them saynge: Se he hath brought in an Hebrewe vnto vs to do vs shame. for he came in to me for to haue slept myth me. But I cried with a lowde voyce.
15. And when he harde that I lyfte vp my voyce and cryed he left his garment with me and fled awaye and got him out.
16. And she layed vp his garment by her vntill hir lorde came home.
17. And she told him acordynge to these wordes saynge. This Hebrues servaunte which thou hast brought vnto vs came in to me to do me shame.
18. But as soone as I lyft vp my voyce and cryed he left his garment with me and fled out.
19. When his master herde the woordes of his wyfe which she tolde him saynge: after this maner dyd thy servaunte to me he waxed wrooth.
20. And he toke Ioseph and put him in pryson: euen in the place where the kinges prisoners laye bounde. And there contynued he in preson.
21. But the LORde was with Ioseph ad shewed him mercie and gott him fauoure in the syghte of the keper of ye preson
22. which commytted to Iosephe hade all the presoners that were in the preson housse. And what soeuer was done there yt dyd he.
23. And the keper of the preso loked vnto nothinge that was vnder his hande because the LORde was with him and because that what soeuer he dyd the LORde made it come luckely to passe.

== Genesis 40 ==
1. And it chaunced after this that the chefe butlar of the kynge of Egipte and his chefe baker had offended there lorde the kynge of Egypte.
2. And Pharao was angrie with them and put the in warde in his chefe marshals house:
3. euen in ye preson where Ioseph was bownd.
4. And the chefe marshall gaue Ioseph a charge with them and he serued them. And they contynued a season in warde.
5. And they dreamed ether of them in one nyghte: both the butlar and the baker of the kynge of Egipte which were bownde in the preson house ether of them his dreame and eche manes dreame of a sondrie interpretation
6. When Ioseph came in vnto them in the mornynge and loked apon them: beholde they were sadd.
7. And he asked them saynge wherfore loke ye so sadly to daye?
8. They answered him we haue dreamed a dreame and haue no man to declare it. And Ioseph sayde vnto the. Interpretynge belongeth to God but tel me yet.
9. And the chefe butlar tolde his dreame to Ioseph and sayde vnto him. In my dreame me thought there stode a vyne before me
10. and in the vyne were.iij. braunches and it was as though it budded and her blossos shottforth: and ye grapes there of waxed rype.
11. And I had Pharaos cuppe in my hande and toke of the grapes and wronge them in to Pharaos cuppe and delyvered Pharaos cuppe into his hande.
12. And Ioseph sayde vnto him this is the interpretation of it.
13. The.iij. braunches ar thre dayes: for within thre dayes shall Pharao lyft vp thine heade and restore the vnto thyne office agayne and thou shalt delyuer Pharaos cuppe in to his hade after the old maner even as thou dydest when thou wast his butlar.
14. But thinke on me with the when thou art in good case and shewe mercie vnto me. And make mencion of me to Pharao and helpe to brynge me out of this house:
15. for I was stollen out of the lande of the Hebrues and here also haue I done nothige at all wherfore they shulde haue put me in to this dongeon.
16. When the chefe baker sawe that he had well interpretate it he sayde vnto Ioseph me thought also in my dreame yt I had. iij. wyker baskettes on my heade?
17. And in ye vppermost basket of all maner bakemeates for Pharao. And the byrdes ate them out of the basket apon my heade
18. Ioseph answered and sayde: this is the interpretation therof. The.iij. baskettes are.iij. dayes
19. for this daye.iij. dayes shall Pharao take thy heade from the and shall hange the on a tree and the byrdes shall eate thy flesh from of the.
20. And it came to passe the thyrde daye which was Pharaos byrth daye that he made a feast vnto all his servauntes. And he lyfted vpp the head of the chefe buttelar and of the chefe baker amonge his servauntes.
21. And restored the chefe buttelar vnto his buttelarshipe agayne and he reched the cuppe in to Pharaos hande
22. ad hanged the chefe baker: eue as Ioseph had interpretated vnto the.
23. Notwithstonding the chefe buttelar remembred not Ioseph but forgat hym.

== Genesis 41 ==
1. And it fortuned at.ij. yeres end that Pharao dreamed and thought that he stode by a ryuers syde and that there came out of the ryver
2. .vij. goodly kyne and fatt fleshed and fedd in a medowe.
3. And him though that.vij. other kyne came vp after them out of the ryver euelfauored and leane fleshed and stode by the other vpon the brynke of the ryuer.
4. And the evill favored and Ienefleshed kyne ate vp the.vij. welfauored and fatt kyne: and be awoke their with.
5. And he slepte agayne and dreamed the second tyme that.vij. eares of corne grewe apon one stalke rancke and goodly.
6. And that.vij. thynne eares blasted with the wynde spronge vp after them:
7. and that the.vij. thynne eares deuowrerd the.vij. rancke and full eares. And than Pharao awaked: and se here is his dreame.
8. When the mornynge came his sprete was troubled And he sent and casted for all the soythsayers of Egypte and all the wyse men there of and told them his dreame: but there was none of them that coude interpretate it vnto Pharao.
9. Than spake the chefe buttelar vnto Pharao saynge. I do remembre my fawte this daye.
10. Pharao was angrie with his servauntes and put in warde in the chefe marshals house both me and the chefe baker.
11. And we dreamed both of vs in one nyght and ech mannes dreame of a sondrye interpretation.
12. And there was with vs a yonge man an Hebrue borne servaunte vnto the chefe marshall. And we told him and he declared oure dreames to vs acordynge to ether of oure dreames.
13. And as he declared them vnto vs euen so it came to passe. I was restored to myne office agayne and he was hanged.
14. Than Pharao sent and called Ioseph. And they made him haste out of preson. And he shaued him self and chaunged his rayment and went in to Pharao.
15. And Pharao sayde vnto Ioseph: I haue dreamed a dreame and no man ca interpretate it but I haue herde saye of the yt as soon as thou hearest a dreame thou dost interpretate it.
16. And Ioseph answered Pharao saynge: God shall geue Pharao an answere of peace without me.
17. Pharao sayde vnto Ioseph: in my dreame me thought I stode by a ryvers syde and there came out of the ryver
18. vij fatt fleshed ad well fauored kyne and fedd in the medowe.
19. And then.vij. other kyne came vp after them poore and very euell fauored ad leane fleshed: so that I neuer sawe their lyke in all the lande of Egipte in euell fauordnesse.
20. And the.vij. leane and euell fauored kyne ate vpp the first.vij. fatt kyne
21. And when they had eaten them vp a man cowde not perceaue that they had eate them: for they were still as evyll fauored as they were at the begynnynge. And I awoke.
22. And I sawe agayne in my dreame.vij. eares sprynge out of one stalk full and good
23. and.vij. other eares wytherd thinne and blasted with wynde sprynge vp after them.
24. And the thynne eares deuowred the.vij. good cares. And I haue tolde it vnto the sothsayers but no man can tell me what it meaneth.
25. Then Ioseph sayde vnto Pharao: both Pharaos dreames are one. And god doth shewe Pharao what he is aboute to do.
26. The vij. good kyne are.vij yeare: and the.vij. good eares are.vij. yere also and is but one dreame.
27. Lykewyse the.vij. thynne and euell fauored kyne that came out after them are.vij. yeares: and the.vij. emptie and blasted eares shalbe vij. yeares of hunger.
28. This is that which I sayde vnto Pharao that God doth shewe Pharao what he is aboute to doo.
29. Beholde there shall come.vij. yere of great plenteousnes through out all the lande of Egypte.
30. And there shall aryse after them vij. yeres of hunger. So that all the plenteousnes shalbe forgeten in the lande of Egipte. And the hunger shall consume the lande:
31. so that the plenteousnes shall not be once asene in the land by reason of that hunger that shall come after for it shalbe exceading great
32. And as concernynge that the dreame was dubled vnto Pharao the second tyme it belokeneth that the thynge is certanly prepared of God ad that God will shortly brynge it to passe.
33. Now therfore let Pharao provyde for a man of vnderstondynge and wysdome and sett him over the lande of Egipte.
34. And let Pharao make officers ouer the lande and take vp the fyfte parte of the land of Egipte in the vij. plenteous yeres
35. and let them gather all the foode of these good yeres that come ad lay vp corne vnder the power of Pharo: that there may be foode in the cities
36. and there let them kepte it: that there may be foode in stoore in the lande agaynst the.vij. yeres of hunger which shall come in the lande of Egipte and that the lande perishe not thorow hunger.
37. And the saynge pleased Pharao ad all his seruauntes.
38. Than sayde Pharao vnto his seruavauntes: where shall we fynde soch a ma as this is that hath the sprete of God in him?
39. wherfore Pharao sayde vnto Ioseph: for as moch as God hath shewed the all this there is no man of vnderstondyng nor of wysdome lyke vnto the
40. Thou therfore shalt be ouer my house and acordinge to thy worde shall all my people obey: only in the kynges seate will I be aboue the.
41. And he sayde vnto Ioseph: beholde I haue sett the ouer all the lande of Egipte.
42. And he toke off his rynge from his fyngre and put it vpon Iosephs fingre and arayed him in raymet of bisse and put a golden cheyne aboute his necke
43. and set him vpon the best charett that he had saue one. And they cryed before him Abrech ad that Pharao had made him ruelar ouer all the lande of Egipte.
44. And Pharao sayde vnto Ioseph: I am Pharao without thi will shall no man lifte vp ether his hande or fote in all the lande of Egipte.
45. And be called Iosephs name Zaphnath Paenea. And he gaue him to wyfe Asnath the doughter of Potiphara preast of On. Than went Ioseph abrode in the lade of Egipte.
46. And he was.xxx. yere olde whe he stode before Pharao kynge of Egipte. And than Ioseph departed from Pharao and went thorow out all the lande of Egipte.
47. And in the.vij. pleteous yeres they made sheves and gathered
48. vp all the fode of the.vij. plenteous yeres which were in the lande of Egipte and put it in to the cities. And he put the food of the feldes that grewe rounde aboute euery cyte: euen in the same.
49. And Ioseph layde vp corne in stoore lyke vnto the sande of the see in multitude out of mesure vntyll he left nombrynge: For it was with out nombre.
50. And vnto Ioseph were borne.ij. sonnes before the yeres of hunger came which Asnath the doughter of Potiphara preast of On bare vnto him.
51. And he called the name of the first sonne Manasse for God (sayde he) hath made me forgett all my laboure and all my fathers husholde.
52. The seconde called he Ephraim for God (sayde he) hath caused me to growe in the lande of my trouble.
53. And when the.vij. yeres plenteousnes that was in the lands of Egypte were ended
54. than came the.vij. yeres of derth acordynge as Ioseph had sayde. And the derth was in all landes: but in the lade of Egipte was there yet foode.
55. When now all the lande of Egipte began to hunger than cried the people to Pharao for bread. And Pharao sayde vnto all Egipte: goo vnto Ioseph and what he sayth to you that doo
56. And when the derth was thorow out all the lande Ioseph opened all that was in the cities and solde vnto the Egiptias And hunger waxed fore in the land of Egipte.
57. And all countrees came to Egipte to Ioseph for to bye corne: because that the hunger was so sore in all landes.

== Genesis 42 ==
1. When Iacob sawe that there was corne to be solde in Egipte he sayde vnto his sones: why are ye negligent?
2. beholde I haue hearde that there is corne to be solde in Egipte. Gete you thither and bye vs corne fro thece that we maye lyue and not dye.
3. So went Iosephs ten brethern doune to bye corne in Egipte
4. for Ben Iamin Iosephs brother wold not Iacob sende with his other brethren: for he sayde: some mysfortune myght happen him
5. And the sonnes of Israell came to bye corne amonge other that came for there was derth also in the lande of Canaan.
6. And Ioseph was gouerner in the londe and solde corne to all the people of the londe. And his brethren came and fell flatt on the grounde before him.
7. When Ioseph sawe his brethern he knewe them: But made straunge vnto them and spake rughly vnto them saynge: Whence come ye? and they sayde: out of the lande of Canaan to bye vitayle.
8. Ioseph knewe his brethern but they knewe not him.
9. And Ioseph remembred his dreames which he dreamed of them and sayde vnto them: ye are spies and to se where the lande is weake is youre comynge.
10. And they sayde vnto him: nay my lorde: but to bye vitayle thy seruauntes are come.
11. We are all one mans sonnes and meane truely and thy seruauntes are no spies.
12. And he sayde vnto them: nay verely but euen to se where the land is weake is youre comynge.
13. And they sayde: we thi seruauntes are.xij. brethern the sonnes of one man in the lande of Canaan. The yongest is yet with oure father and one no man woteth where he is.
14. Ioseph sayde vnto them that is it that I sayde vnto you that ye are surelye spies.
15. Here by ye shall be proued. For by the lyfe of Pharao ye shall not goo hence vntyll youre yongest brother be come hither.
16. Sende therfore one off you and lett him fett youre brother and ye shalbe in preason in the meane season. And thereby shall youre wordes be proued whether there be any trueth in you: or els by the lyfe of Pharao ye are but spies.
17. And he put them in warde thre dayes.
18. And Ioseph sayde vnto the the thryd daye: This doo and lyue for I feare Gode
19. Yf ye meane no hurte let one of youre brethern be bounde in the preason and goo ye and brynge the necessarie foode vnto youre housholdes
20. and brynge youre yongest brother vnto me: that youre wordes maye be beleved ad that ye dye not And they did so.
21. Than they sayde one to a nother: we haue verely synned agaynst oure brother in that we sawe the anguysh of his soull when he besought us and wold not heare him: therfore is this troubyll come apon us.
22. Ruben answered the saynge: sayde I not vnto you that ye shulde not synne agaynst the lad? but ye wolde not heare And now verely see his bloude is requyred.
23. They were not aware that Ioseph vnderstode them for he spake vnto them by an interpreter.
24. And he turned from them and wepte and than turned to them agayne ad comened with them and toke out Simeon from amonge the and bownde him before their eyes
25. ad commaunded to fyll their saekes wyth corne and to put euery mans money in his sacke and to geue them vitayle to spende by the waye. And so it was done to them.
26. And they laded their asses with the corne and departed thence.
27. And as one of them opened his sacke for to geue his asse prauender in the Inne he spied his money in his sacks mouth
28. And he sayde vnto his brethren: my money is restored me agayne and is eue in my sackes mouth Than their hartes fayled them and were astoynyed and sayde one to a nother: how cometh it that God dealeth thus with us?
29. And they came vnto Iacob their father vnto the lande of Canaan and tolde him all that had happened them saynge.
30. The lorde of the lade spake rughly to us and toke us for spyes to serche the countte.
31. And we sayde vnto him: we meane truely and are no spies.
32. We be.xij. bretren sones of oure father one is awaye and the yongest is now with oure father in the lande of Canaan.
33. And the lorde of the countre sayde vnto us: here by shall I knowe yf ye meane truely: leaue one of youre brethern here with me and take foode necessary for youre housholdes and get you awaye
34. and brynge youre yongest brother vnto me And thereby shall I knowe that ye are no spyes but meane truely: So will I delyuer you youre brother agayne and ye shall occupie in the lande.
35. And as they emptied their sackes beholde: euery mans bundell of money was in his sacke And when both they and their father sawe the bundells of money they were afrayde.
36. And Iacob their father sayde vnto them: Me haue ye robbed of my childern: Ioseph is away and Simeon is awaye and ye will take Ben Iamin awaye. All these thinges fall vpon me.
37. Ruben answered his father saynge: Slee my two sonnes yf I bringe him not to the agayne. Delyuer him therfore to my honde and I will brynge him to the agayne:
38. And he sayde: my sonne shall not go downe with you. For his brother is dead and he is left alone Moreouer some mysfortune myght happen vpon him by the waye which ye goo. And so shuld ye brynge my gray head with sorowe vnto the graue.

== Genesis 43 ==
1. And the derth waxed sore in the lande.
2. And when they had eate vp that corne which they brought out of the lande of Egipte their father sayde vnto them: goo agayne and by vs a litle food.
3. Than sayde Iuda vnto him: the man dyd testifie vnto vs saynge: loke that ye see not my face excepte youre brother be with you.
4. Therfore yf thou wilt sende oure brother with vs we wyll goo and bye the food.
5. But yf thou wylt not sende him we wyll not goo: for the man sayde vnto vs: loke that ye see not my face excepte youre brother be with you.
6. And Israell sayde: wherfore delt ye so cruelly with me as to tell the man that ye had yet another brother?
7. And they sayde: The man asked vs of oure kynred saynge: is youre father yet alyue? haue ye not another brother? And we tolde him acordynge to these wordes. How cowd we knowe that he wolde byd vs brynge oure brother downe with vs?
8. Than sayde Iuda vnto Israell his father: Send the lad with me and we wyll ryse and goo that we maye lyue and not dye: both we thou and also oure childern.
9. I wilbe suertie for him and of my handes requyre him. Yf I brynge him not to the and sett him before thine eyes than let me bere the blame for euer.
10. For except we had made this tarieg: by this we had bene there twyse and come agayne.
11. Than their father Israel sayde vnto the Yf it must nedes be so now: than do thus take of the best frutes of the lande in youre vesselles and brynge the man a present a curtesie bawlme and a curtesie of hony spyces and myrre dates and almondes.
12. And take as moch money more with you. And the money that was brought agayne in youre sackes take it agayne with you in youre handes peraduenture it was some ouersyghte.
13. Take also youre brother with you and aryse and goo agayne to the man.
14. And God almightie geue you mercie in the sighte of the man and send you youre other brother and also Be Iamin and I wilbe as a ma robbed of his childern.
15. Thus toke they the present and twise so moch more money with them and Ben Iamin. And rose vp went downe to Egipte and presented them selfe to Ioseph.
16. When Ioseph sawe Ben Iamin with them he sayde to the ruelar of his house: brynge these men home and sley and make redie: for they shall dyne with me at none.
17. And the man dyd as Ioseph bad and brought them in to Iosephs house.
18. When they were brought to Iosephs house they were afrayde ad sayde: be cause of the money yt came in oure sackes mouthes at the first tyme are we brought to pyke a quarell with vs and to laye some thinge to oure charge: to brynge us in bondage and oure asses also.
19. Therfore came they to the man that was the ruelar ouer Iosephs house and comened with him at the doore
20. and sayde:Sir we came hither at the first tyme to bye foode
21. and as we came to an Inne and opened oure sackes: beholde euery mannes money was in his sacke with full weghte: But we haue broght it agene with us
22. and other mony haue we brought also in oure handes to bye foode but we can not tell who put oure money in oure sackes.
23. And he sayde: be of good chere feare not: Youre God and the God of youre fathers hath put you that treasure in youre sackes for I had youre money. And he brought Simeon out to them
24. ad led the into Iosephs house and gaue the water to washe their fete and gaue their asses prauender:
25. And they made redie their present agaynst Ioseph came at none for they herde saye that they shulde dyne there.
26. When Ioseph came home they brought the present in to the house to him which they had in their handes ad fell flat on the grounde befor him.
27. And he welcomed the curteously sainge: is youre father that old man which ye tolde me of in good health? and is he yet alyue?
28. they answered: thy servaunte oure father is in good health ad is yet alyue. And they bowed them selues and fell to the grounde.
29. And he lyfte vp his eyes and behelde his brother Ben Iamin his mothers sonne and sayde: is this youre yongest brother of whome ye sayde vnto me? And sayde: God be mercyfull vnto ye my sonne.
30. And Ioseph made hast (for his hert dyd melt apon his brother) and soughte for to wepe and entred in to his chambre for to wepe there.
31. And he wasshed his face and came out and refrayned himselfe and bad sett bread on the table
32. And they prepared for him by himselfe and for them by them selues and for the Egiptians which ate with him by them selues because the Egyptians may not eate bread with the Hebrues for that is an abhomynacyon vnto the Egiptians.
33. And they satt before him: the eldest acordynge vnto his age and the yongest acordyng vnto his youth. And the men marveled amonge them selves.
34. And they broughte rewardes vnto them from before him: but Ben Iamins parte was fyue tymes so moch as any of theirs. And they ate and they dronke and were dronke wyth him.

== Genesis 44 ==
1. And he commaunded the rueler of his house saynge: fyll the mens sackes with food as moch as they can carie
2. and put euery mans money in his bagge mouth and put my syluer cuppe in the sackes mouth of the yongest and his corne money also. And he dyd as Ioseph had sayde.
3. And in ye mornynge as soone as it was lighte the me were let goo with their asses.
4. And when they were out of the cytie and not yet ferre awaye Ioseph sayde vnto the ruelar of his house: vp and folowe after the men and ouertake them and saye vnto them: wherefore haue ye rewarded euell for good?
5. is that not the cuppe of which my lorde drynketh ad doth he not prophesie therin? ye haue euell done that ye haue done.
6. And he ouertoke them and sayde the same wordes vnto them.
7. And they answered him: wherfore sayth my lorde soch wordes? God forbydd that thy servauntes shulde doo so.
8. Beholde the money which we founde in oure sackes mouthes we brought agayne vnto the out of the lande of Canaa: how then shulde we steale out of my lordes house ether syluer or golde?
9. with whosoeuer of thy seruauntes it be founde let him dye and let vs also be my lordes bondmen.
10. And he sayde: Now therfore acordynge vnto youre woordes he with whom it is found shalbe my seruaunte: but ye shalbe harmelesse.
11. And attonce euery man toke downe his sacke to the grounde ad every man opened his sacke.
12. And he serched and began at the eldest and left at the yongest. And the cuppe was founde in Ben Iamins sacke.
13. Then they rent their clothes and laded euery man his asse and went agayne vnto the cytie.
14. And Iuda and his brethre came to Iosephs house for he was yet there ad they fell before him on the grounde.
15. And Ioseph sayde vnto the: what dede is this which ye haue done? wist ye not that soch a man as I can prophesie?.
16. Then sayde Iuda: what shall we saye vnto my lorde what shall we speake or what excuse can we make? God hath founde out ye wekednesse of thy seruauntes. Beholde both we and he with whom the cuppe is founde are thy seruauntes.
17. And he answered: God forbyd ye I shulde do so the man with whom the cuppe is founde he shalbe my seruaunte: but goo ye in peace vn to youre father.
18. Then Iuda went vnto him and sayde: oh my lorde let thy servaunte speake a worde in my lordes audyence and be not wrooth with thi servaunte: for thou art euen as Pharao.
19. My lorde axed his seruaunte sainge: haue ye a father or a brother?
20. And we answered my lord we haue a father that is old and a yonge lad which he begat in his age: ad the brother of the sayde lad is dead and he is all that is left of that mother. And his father loueth him.
21. Then sayde my lorde vnto his seruauntes brynge him vnto me that I maye sett myne eyes apon him.
22. And we answered my lorde that the lad coude not goo from his father for if he shulde leaue his father he were but a deed man.
23. Than saydest thou vnto thy servauntes: excepte youre yongest brother come with you loke that ye se my face no moare.
24. And when we came vnto thy servaunt oure father we shewed him what my lorde had sayde.
25. And when oure father sayde vnto vs goo agayne and bye vs a litle fode:
26. we sayd yt we coude not goo. Neverthelesse if oure youngeste brother go with vs then will we goo for we maye not see the mannes face excepte oure yongest brother be with vs.
27. Then sayde thy servaunt oure father vnto vs. Ye knowe that my wyfe bare me.ij. sonnes.
28. And the one went out from me and it is sayde of a suertie that he is torne in peaces of wyld beastes and I sawe him not sence.
29. Yf ye shall take this also awaye fro me and some mysfortune happen apon him then shall ye brynge my gray heed with sorow vnto the grave.
30. Now therfore whe I come to thy servaunt my father yf the lad be not with me: seinge that his lyfe hageth by the laddes lyfe
31. then as soone as he seeth that the lad is not come he will dye. So shall we thy servautes brynge the gray hedde of thy servaunt oure father with sorow vnto the grave.
32. For I thy servaunt became suertie for the lad vnto my father and sayde: yf I bringe him not vnto the agayne. I will bere the blame all my life loge.
33. Now therfore let me thy servaunt byde here for ye lad and be my lordes bondman: and let the lad goo home with his brethern.
34. For how can I goo vnto my father and the lad not wyth me: lest I shulde see the wretchednes that shall come on my father.

== Genesis 45 ==
1. And Ioseph coude no longer refrayne before all them that stode aboute him but commaunded that they shuld goo all out from him and that there shuld be no man with him whyle he vttred him selfe vnto his brethern.
2. And he wepte alowde so that the Egiptians and the house of Pharao herde it.
3. And he sayde vnto his brethern: I am Ioseph: doth my father yet lyue? But his brethern coude not answere him for they were abasshed at his presence.
4. And Ioseph sayde vnto his brethern: come nere to me and they came nere. And he sayde: I am Ioseph youre brother whom ye sold in to Egipte.
5. And now be not greued therwith nether let it seme a cruel thinge in youre eyes that ye solde me hither. For God dyd send me before you to saue lyfe.
6. For this is the seconde yere of derth in the lande and fyue moo are behynde in which there shall nether be earynge nor hervest.
7. Wherfore God sent me before you to make prouision that ye myghte continue in the erth and to save youre lyues by a greate delyuerance.
8. So now it was not ye that sent me hither but God: and he hath made me father vnto Pharao and lorde ouer all his house and rueler in all the land of Egipte.
9. Hast you ad goo to my father and tell him this sayeth thy sonne Ioseph: God hath made me lorde ouer all Egipte. Come downe vnto me and tarye not
10. And thou shalt dwell in the londe of Gosan and be by me: both thou and thi childern and thi childerns childern: and thy shepe and beestes and all that thou hast.
11. There will I make provision for the: for there remayne yet v yeres of derth lest thou and thi houshold and all that thou hast perish.
12. Beholde youre eyes do se and the eyes also of my brother Ben Iamin that I speake to you by mouth.
13. Therfore tell my father of all my honoure which I haue in Egipte and of all that ye haue sene ad make hast and brynge in father hither.
14. And he fell on his brother Ben Iamis necke and wepte and Ben Iamin wepte on his necke.
15. Moreouer he fylled all his brethern and wepte apon them. And after that his brethern talked with him.
16. And when the tidynges was come vnto Pharaos housse that Iosephes brethern were come it pleased Pharao well and all his seruauntes.
17. And Pharao spake vnto Ioseph: saye vnto thy brethern this do ye: lade youre beestes ad get you hence And when ye be come vnto the londe of Canaan
18. take youre father and youre housholdes and come vnto me and I will geue you the beste of the lande of Egipte and ye shall eate the fatt of the londe.
19. And commaunded also. This do ye: take charettes with you out of the lande of Egipte for youre childern and for youre wyues: and brynge youre father and come.
20. Also regarde not youre stuff for the goodes of all the londe of Egipte shalbe youres.
21. And the childern of Israell dyd euen so And Ioseph gaue them charettes at the commaundment of Pharao and gaue them vitayle also to spende by the waye.
22. And he gaue vnto eche of them chaunge of rayment: but vnto Ben Iamin he gaue.iij. hundred peces of syluer and.v. chaunge of rayment.
23. And vnto his father he sent after the same maner:.x. he asses laden with good out of Egipte and.x. she asses laden with corne bred and meate: to serue his father by the waye.
24. So sent he his brethern awaye and they departed. And he sayde vnto them: se that ye fall nor out by the waye.
25. And they departed from Egipte and came in to the land of Canaan vnto Iacob their father and told him saynge.
26. Ioseph is yet a lyue and is gouerner ouer all the land of Egipte. And Iacobs hert wauered for he beleued tho not.
27. And they tolde him all the wordes of Ioseph which he had sayde vnto them. But when he sawe the charettes which Ioseph had sent to carie him then his sprites reviued.
28. And Israel sayde. I haue ynough yf Ioseph my sonne be yet alyue: I will goo and se him yer that I dye.

== Genesis 46 ==
1. Israel toke his iourney with all that he had and came vnto Berseba and offred offrynges vnto the God of his father Isaac.
2. And God sayde vnto Israel in a vision by nyghte and called vnto him: Iacob Iacob. And he answered: here am I.
3. And he sayde: I am that mightie God of thy father feare not to goo downe in to Egipte. For I will make of the there a great people.
4. I will go downe with ye in to Egipte and I will also bringe the vp agayne and Ioseph shall put his hand apon thine eyes.
5. And Iacob rose vp from Berseba. And ye sonnes of Israel I caried Iacob their father ad their childern and their wyues in the charettes which Pharao had sent to carie him.
6. And they toke their catell ad the goodes which they had gotten in the land of Canaan and came in to Egipte: both Iacob and all his seed with him
7. his sonnes and his sonnes sonnes with him: his doughters and his sonnes doughters and all his seed brought he with him in to Egipte.
8. These are the names of the childern of Israel which came in to Egipte both Iacob and his sonnes: Rube Iacobs first sonne.
9. The childern of Ruben: Hanoch Pallu Hezron and Charmi.
10. The childern of Simeon: Iemuel Iamin Ohad Iachin Zohar and Saul the sonne of a Cananitish woman
11. The childern of Leui: Gerson Rahath and Merari.
12. The childern of Iuda: Er Onan Sela Pharez and Zerah but Er and Onan dyed in the lande of Canaan. The childern of Pharez Hezro and Hamul.
13. The childern of Isachar: Tola Phuva Iob and Semnon.
14. The childern of Sebulon: Sered Elon and Iaheleel.
15. These be the childern of Lea which she bare vnto Iacob in Mesopotamia with his doughter Dina. All these soulles of his sonnes and doughters make.xxx and.vi.
16. The childern of Gad: Ziphion Haggi Suni Ezbon Eri Arodi and Areli.
17. The childern of Asser: Iemna Iesua Iesui Brya and Serah their sister. And the childern of Brya were Heber and Malchiel.
18. These are the childern of Silpha whom Laba gaue to Lea his doughter. And these she bare vnto Iacob in nombre xvi. soules.
19. The childern of Rahel Iacobs wife: Ioseph and ben Iamin.
20. And vnto Ioseph in the lode of Egipte were borne: Manasses and Ephraim which Asnath the doughter of Potiphera preast of On bare vnto him.
21. The childern of BenIamin: Bela Becher Asbel Gera Naeman Ehi Ros Mupim Hupim and Aro.
22. These are the childern of Rahel which were borne vnto Iacob: xiiij. soules all to gether.
23. The childern of Dan: Husim.
24. The childern of Nepthali? Iahezeel Guni Iezer and Sillem.
25. These are the sonnes of Bilha which Laban gaue vnto Rahel his doughter and she bare these vnto Iacob all together.vij. soulles
26. All the soulles that came with Iacob into Egipte which came out of his loyns (besyde his sonnes wifes) were all togither.lx. and.vi. soulles.
27. And the sonnes of Ioseph which were borne him in egipte were.ij. soules: So that all the soulles of the house of Iacob which came in to Egipte are lxx.
28. And he sent Iuda before him vnto Ioseph that the waye myghte be shewed him vnto Gosan and they came in to the lande of Gosan
29. And Ioseph made redie his charett and went agaynst Israell his father vnto Gosan ad presented him selfe vnto him and fell on his necke and wepte vpon his necke a goode whyle.
30. And Israel sayd vnto Ioseph: Now I am cotet to dye in somoch I haue sene the that thou art yet alyue.
31. And Ioseph sayde vnto his brethre and vnto his fathers house: I will goo and shewe Pharao and tell him: that my brethern and my fathers housse which were in the lade of Canaan are come vnto me
32. and how they are shepardes (for they were men of catell) and they haue brought their shepe and their oxen and all that they haue with them.
33. Yf Pharao call you and axe you what youre occupation
34. is saye: thi seruauntes haue bene occupyed aboute catell fro oure chilhode vnto this tyme: both we and oure fathers that ye maye dwell in the lande of Gosan. For an abhominacyon vnto the Egiptians are all that feade shepe.

== Genesis 47 ==
1. And Ioseph wet and tolde Pharao and sayde: my father and my brethern their shepe and their beastes and all that they haue are come out of the lade of Canaan and are in the lande of Gosan.
2. And Ioseph toke a parte of his brethern: euen fyue of them and presented them vnto Pharao.
3. And Pharao sayde vnto his brethern: what is youre occupation? And they sayde vnto Pharao: feaders of shepe are thi seruauntes both we ad also oure fathers.
4. They sayde moreouer vnto Pharao: for to sogcorne in the lande are we come for thy seruauntes haue no pasture for their shepe so sore is the fameshment in the lande of Canaan. Now therfore let thy seruauntes dwell in the lande of Gosan.
5. And Pharao sayde vnto Ioseph: thy father and thy brethren are come vnto the.
6. The londe of Egipte is open before the: In the best place of the lande make both thy father and thy brothren dwell: And even in the lond of Gosan let them dwell. Moreouer yf thou knowe any men of actiuyte amonge them make them ruelars ouer my catell.
7. And Ioseph brought in Iacob his father and sett him before Pharao And Iacob blessed Pharao.
8. And Pharao axed Iacob how old art thou?
9. And Iacob sayde vnto Pharao: the dayes of my pilgremage are an hundred and.xxx. yeres. Few and euell haue the dayes of my lyfe bene and haue not attayned vnto the yeres of the lyfe of my fathers in the dayes of their pilgremages.
10. And Iacob blessed Pharao and went out from him.
11. And Ioseph prepared dwellinges for his father and his brethern and gaue them possessions in the londe of Egipte in the best of the londe: eue in the lande of Raemses as Pharao commaunded.
12. And Ioseph made prouysion for his father his brethern and all his fathers housholde as yonge childern are fedd with bread.
13. There was no bread in all the londe for the derth was exceadige sore: so yt ye lode of Egipte and ye lode of Canaan were fameshyd by ye reason of ye derth.
14. And Ioseph brought together all ye money yt was founde in yt lade of Egipte and of Canaan for ye corne which they boughte: and he layde vp the money in Pharaos housse.
15. When money fayled in the lade of Egipte and of Canaan all the Egiptians came vnto Ioseph and sayde: geue us sustenaunce: wherfore suffrest thou vs to dye before the for oure money is spent.
16. Then sayde Ioseph: brynge youre catell and I well geue yow for youre catell yf ye be without money.
17. And they brought their catell vnto Ioseph. And he gaue them bread for horses and shepe and oxen and asses: so he fed them with bread for all their catell that yere.
18. When that yere was ended they came vnto him the nexte yere and sayde vnto him: we will not hydest from my lorde how that we haue nether money nor catell for my lorde: there is no moare left for my lorde but euen oure bodies and oure londes.
19. Wherfore latest thou us dye before thyne eyes and the londe to goo to noughte? bye us and oure landes for bread: and let both vs and oure londes be bonde to Pharao. Geue vs seed that we may lyue and not dye and that the londe goo not to wast.
20. And Ioseph boughte all the lande of Egipte for Pharao. For the Egiptians solde euery man his londe because the derth was sore apo them: and so the londe be came Pharaos.
21. And he appoynted the people vnto the cities from one syde of Egipte vnto the other:
22. only the londe of the Prestes bought he not. For there was an ordinauce made by Pharao for ye preastes that they shulde eate that which was appoynted vnto them: which Pharao had geuen them wherfore they solde not their londes.
23. Then Ioseph sayde vnto the folke: beholde I haue boughte you this daye ad youre landes for Pharao. Take there seed and goo sowe the londe.
24. And of the encrease ye shall geue the fyfte parte vnto Pharao and.iiij. partes shalbe youre awne for seed to sowe the feld: and for you and them of youre housholdes and for youre childern to eate.
25. And they answered: Thou haste saued oure lyves Let vs fynde grace in the syghte of my lorde and let us be Pharaos servautes.
26. And Ioseph made it a lawe ouer the lade of Egipte vnto this daye: that men must geue Pharao the fyfte parte excepte the londe of the preastes only which was not bond vnto Pharao.
27. And Israel dwelt in Egipte: euen in the countre of Gosan. And they had their possessions therein and they grewe and multiplyed exceadingly.
28. Moreouer Iacob lyued in the lande of Egipte.xvij. yeres so that the hole age of Iacob was an hundred and.xlvij. yere.
29. When the tyme drewe nye that Israel must dye: he sent for his sonne Ioseph and sayde vnto him: Yf I haue founde grace in thy syghte put thy hande vnder my thye and deale mercifully ad truely with me that thou burie me not in Egipte:
30. but let me lye by my fathers and carie me out of Egipte and burie me in their buryall. And he answered: I will do as thou hast sayde.
31. And he sayde: swere vnto me: ad he sware vnto him. And than Israel bowed him vnto the beddes head.

== Genesis 48 ==
1. After these deades tydiges were brought vnto Ioseph: that his father was seke. And he toke with him his ij. sones Manasses and Ephraim.
2. Then was it sayde vnto Iacob: beholde thy sonne Ioseph commeth vnto the. And Israel toke his strength vnto him and satt vp on the bedd
3. and sayde vnto Ioseph: God all mightie appeared vnto me at lus in the lande of Canaan ad blessed me
4. and sayde vnto me: beholde I will make the growe and will multiplye the and will make a great nombre of people of the and will geue this lande vnto the and vnto thy seed after ye vnto an euerlastinge possession.
5. Now therfore thy.ij. sones Manasses ad Ephraim which were borne vnto the before I came to the in to Egipte shalbe myne: euen as Ruben and Simeo shall they be vnto me.
6. And the childern which thou getest after them shalbe thyne awne: but shalbe called with the names of their brethern in their enheritaunces.
7. And after I came from Mesopotamia Rahel dyed apon my hande in the lande of Canaa by the waye: when I had but a feldes brede to goo vnto Ephrat. And I buried her there in ye waye to Ephrat which is now called Bethlehem.
8. And Israel behelde Iosephes sonnes and sayde: what are these?
9. And Ioseph sayde vnto his father: they are my sonnes which God hath geuen me here. And he sayde: brynge them to me and let me blesse them.
10. And the eyes of Israell were dymme for age so that he coude not see. And he broughte them to him ad he kyssed the and embraced them.
11. And Israel sayde vnto Ioseph: I had not thoughte to haue sene thy face and yet loo God hath shewed it me and also thy seed.
12. And Ioseph toke them awaye from his lappe and they fell on the grounde before him.
13. Than toke Ioseph them both: Ephraim in his ryghte hande towarde Israels left hande ad Manasses in his left hande towarde Israels ryghte hande and brought them vnto him.
14. And Israel stretched out his righte hande and layde it apon Ephraims head which was the yonger and his lyft hade apon Manasses heed crossinge his handes for manasses was the elder.
15. And he blessed Ioseph saynge: God before whome my fathers Abraham and Isaac dyd walke and the God which hath fedd me all my life longe vnto this daye
16. And the angell which hath delyuered me fro all euyll blesse these laddes: yt they maye be called after my name and after my father Abraham and Isaac and that they maye growe ad multiplie apo the erth.
17. When Ioseph sawe that his father layd his ryghte hande apon the heade of Ephraim it displeased him. And he lifte vpp his fathers hade to haue removed it from Ephraims head vnto Manasses head
18. and sayde vnto his father: Not so my father for this is the eldest. Put thy right hande apon his head.
19. And his father wold not but sayde: I knowe it well my sonne I knowe it well. He shalbe also a people ad shalbe great. But of a troth his yonger brother shalbe greatter than he and his seed shall be full of people.
20. And he blessed them sainge. At the ensample of these the Israelites shall blesse and saye: God make the as Ephraim and as Manasses. Thus sett he Ephraim before Manasses.
21. And Israel sayde vnto Ioseph: beholde I dye. And god shalbe with you and bringe you agayne vnto the land of youre fathers.
22. Moreouer I geue vnto the a porcyon of lande aboue thy brethern which I gatt out of the handes of the Amorites with my swerde and wyth my bowe.

== Genesis 49 ==
1. And Iacob called for his sonnes ad sayde: come together that I maye tell you what shall happe you in the last dayes.
2. Gather you together and heare ye sonnes of Iacob and herken vnto Israel youre father.
3. Ruben thou art myne eldest sonne my myghte and the begynnynge of my strength chefe in receauynge and chefe in power.
4. As vnstable as water wast thou: thou shalt therfore not be the chefest for thou wenst vp vpo thy fathers bedd and than defyledest thou my couche with goynge vppe.
5. The brethern Simeon and Leui weked instrumentes are their wepos.
6. In to their secrettes come not my soule and vnto their congregation be my honoure not coupled: for in their wrath they slewe a man and in their selfewill they houghed an oxe.
7. Cursed be their wrath for it was stronge and their fearsnes for it was cruell. I will therfore deuyde them in Iacob and scater them in Israel.
8. Iuda thy brethern shall prayse the and thine hande shalbe in the necke of thyne enimies and thy fathers childern shall stoupe vnto the.
9. Iuda is a lions whelpe. Fro spoyle my sonne thou art come an hye: he layde him downe and couched himselfe as a lion and as a lionesse. Who dare stere him vp?
10. The sceptre shall not departe from Iuda nor a ruelar from betwene his legges vntill Silo come vnto whome the people shall herken.
11. He shall bynde his fole vnto the vine and his asses colt vnto the vyne braunche ad shall wash his garment in wyne and his mantell in the bloud of grapes
12. his eyes are roudier than wyne ad his teeth whitter then mylke.
13. Zabulon shall dwell in the hauen of the see and in the porte of shippes and shall reache vnto Sidon.
14. Isachar is a stronge asse he couched him doune betwene.ij. borders
15. and sawe that rest was good and the lande that it was pleasant and bowed his shulder to beare and became a servaunte vnto trybute.
16. Dan shall iudge his people as one of the trybes of Israel.
17. Dan shalbe a serpent in the waye and an edder in the path and byte the horse heles so yt his ryder shall fall backwarde,
18. After thy sauynge loke I LORde.
19. Gad men of warre shall invade him. And he shall turne them to flyght.
20. Off Asser cometh fatt breed and he shall geue pleasures for a kynge.
21. Nepthali is a swyft hynde ad geueth goodly wordes.
22. That florishynge childe Ioseph that florishing childe and goodly vn to the eye: the doughters come forth to bere ruele.
23. The shoters haue envyed him and chyde with him ad hated him
24. and yet his bowe bode fast and his armes and his handes were stronge by the handes of the myghtye God of Iacob: out of him shall come an herde ma a stone in Israel.
25. Thi fathers God shall helpe the and the almightie shall blesse the with blessinges from heaven aboue and with blessinges of the water that lieth vnder and with blessinges of the brestes and of the wombe.
26. The blessinges of thy father were stronge: euen as the blessinges of my elders after the desyre of the hiest in the worlde and these blessinges shall fall on the head of Ioseph and on the toppe of the head of him yt was separat from his brethern.
27. Ben Iamin is a raueshynge wolfe. In the mornynge be shall deuoure his praye ad at nyghte he shall deuyde his spoyle.
28. All these are the.xij. tribes of Israel and this is that which their father spake vnto them whe he blessed them euery man with a severall blessinge.
29. And he charged them and sayde vnto them. I shall be put vnto my people: se that ye burye me with my fathers in the caue that is in the felde of Ephron the Hethyte
30. in the double caue that is in the felde before Mamre in the lande of Canaan. Which felde Abraham boughte of Ephron the Hethite for a possessio to burye in.
31. There they buryed Abraha and Sara his wyfe there they buryed Isaac and Rebecca his wyfe. And there I buried Lea:
32. which felde and the caue that is therin was bought of the childern of Heth.
33. When Iacob had commaunded all that he wold vnto his sonnes be plucked vp his fete apon the bedd and dyed and was put vnto his people.

== Genesis 50 ==
1. And Ioseph fell apon his fathers face and wepte apon him and kyssed him.
2. And Ioseph commaunded his seruauntes that were Phisicions to embawme his father and the Phisicios ebawmed Israel
3. .xl. dayes loge for so loge doth ye embawminge last and the Egiptians bewepte him.lxx. dayes.
4. And when the dayes of wepynge were ended Ioseph spake vnto ye house of Pharao saynge: Yf I haue founde fauoure in youre eyes speake vnto Pharao and tell him how that
5. my father made me swere and sayde: loo Ioye se that thou burye me in my graue which I haue made me in the lande of Canaan. Now therfore let me goo and burye my father ad tha will I come agayne.
6. And Pharao sayde goo and burye thy father acordynge as he made the swere.
7. And Ioseph went vp to burie his father and with him went all the seruauntes of Pharao that were the elders of his house ad all ye elders of Egipte
8. and all the house of Ioseph ad his brethern and his fathers house: only their childern and their shepe and their catell lefte they behinde them in the lande of Gosan.
9. And there went with him also Charettes and horsemen: so that they were an exceadynge great companye.
10. And when they came to ye feld of Atad beyonde Iordane there they made great and exceadinge sore lamentacio. And he morned for his father.vij. dayes.
11. When the enhabiters of the lande the Cananytes sawe the moornynge in ye felde of Atad they saide: this is a greate moornynge which the Egiptians make. Wherfore ye name of the place is called Abel mizraim which place lyeth beyonde Iordane.
12. And his sonnes dyd vnto him acordynge as he had commaunded them.
13. And his sonnes caried him in to the land of Canaan and buryed him in the double caue which Abraha had boughte with the felde to be a place to burye in of Ephron the Hethite before Mamre.
14. And Ioseph returned to Egipte agayne and his brethern and all that went vp with him to burye his father assone as he had buryed him.
15. Whe Iosephs brethern sawe that their father was deade they sayde: Ioseph myghte fortune to hate us and rewarde us agayne all the euell which we dyd vnto him.
16. They dyd therfore a commaundment vnto Ioseph saynge: thy father charged before his deth saynge.
17. This wise say vnto Ioseph forgeue I praye the the trespace of thy brethern and their synne for they rewarded the euell. Now therfore we praye the forgeue the trespace of the servuantes of thy fathers God. And Ioseph wepte when they spake vnto him.
18. And his brethern came ad fell before him and sayde: beholde we be thy servauntes.
19. And Ioseph sayde vnto them: feare not for am not I vnder god?
20. Ye thoughte euell vnto me: but God turned it vnto good to bringe to passe as it is this daye euen to saue moch people a lyue
21. feare not therfore for I will care for you and for youre childern and he spake kyndly vnto them.
22. Ioseph dwelt in Egipte and his fathers house also ad lyved an hundred and.x. yere.
23. And Ioseph sawe Ephraims childern eue vnto the thyrde generation. And vnto Machir the sonne of Manasses were childern borne and satt on Iosephs knees.
24. And Ioseph sayde vnto his brethern: I die And God will suerlie vysett you and bringe you out of this lande vnto the lande which he sware vnto Abraham Isaac and Iacob.
25. And Ioseph toke an ooth of the childern of Israel ad sayde: God will not fayle but vysett you se therfore that ye carye my boones hence.
26. And so Ioseph dyed when he was an hundred and.x. yere olde. And they enbawmed him and put him in a chest in Egipte.

== Exodus 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Exodus 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Exodus 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Exodus 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Exodus 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Exodus 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Exodus 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Exodus 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Exodus 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Exodus 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Exodus 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Exodus 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 

== Exodus 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Exodus 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Exodus 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Exodus 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Exodus 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Exodus 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Exodus 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Exodus 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Exodus 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Exodus 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Exodus 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Exodus 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Exodus 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Exodus 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== Exodus 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Exodus 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== Exodus 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 

== Exodus 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Exodus 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Exodus 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Exodus 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Exodus 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Exodus 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Exodus 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Exodus 37 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Exodus 38 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Exodus 39 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== Exodus 40 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Leviticus 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Leviticus 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Leviticus 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Leviticus 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Leviticus 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Leviticus 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Leviticus 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Leviticus 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Leviticus 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Leviticus 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Leviticus 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 

== Leviticus 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Leviticus 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 

== Leviticus 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 

== Leviticus 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Leviticus 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Leviticus 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Leviticus 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Leviticus 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== Leviticus 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Leviticus 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Leviticus 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Leviticus 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 

== Leviticus 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Leviticus 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 

== Leviticus 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 

== Leviticus 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Numbers 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 

== Numbers 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Numbers 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 

== Numbers 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 

== Numbers 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Numbers 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Numbers 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 

== Numbers 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Numbers 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Numbers 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Numbers 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Numbers 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Numbers 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Numbers 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 

== Numbers 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 

== Numbers 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 

== Numbers 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Numbers 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Numbers 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Numbers 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Numbers 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Numbers 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 

== Numbers 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Numbers 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Numbers 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Numbers 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 

== Numbers 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Numbers 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Numbers 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Numbers 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Numbers 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 

== Numbers 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 

== Numbers 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 

== Numbers 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Numbers 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Numbers 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Deuteronomy 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 

== Deuteronomy 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== Deuteronomy 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Deuteronomy 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 

== Deuteronomy 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Deuteronomy 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Deuteronomy 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Deuteronomy 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Deuteronomy 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Deuteronomy 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Deuteronomy 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Deuteronomy 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Deuteronomy 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Deuteronomy 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Deuteronomy 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Deuteronomy 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Deuteronomy 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Deuteronomy 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Deuteronomy 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Deuteronomy 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Deuteronomy 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Deuteronomy 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Deuteronomy 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Deuteronomy 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Deuteronomy 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Deuteronomy 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Deuteronomy 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Deuteronomy 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 

== Deuteronomy 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Deuteronomy 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Deuteronomy 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Deuteronomy 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 

== Deuteronomy 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Deuteronomy 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Joshua 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Joshua 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Joshua 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Joshua 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Joshua 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Joshua 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Joshua 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Joshua 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Joshua 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Joshua 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== Joshua 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Joshua 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Joshua 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Joshua 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Joshua 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 

== Joshua 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Joshua 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Joshua 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Joshua 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 

== Joshua 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Joshua 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 

== Joshua 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Joshua 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Joshua 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Judges 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Judges 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Judges 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Judges 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Judges 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Judges 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Judges 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Judges 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Judges 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 

== Judges 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Judges 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Judges 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Judges 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Judges 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Judges 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Judges 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Judges 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Judges 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Judges 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Judges 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 

== Judges 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Ruth 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Ruth 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ruth 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Ruth 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== I Samuel 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== I Samuel 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== I Samuel 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== I Samuel 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== I Samuel 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== I Samuel 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== I Samuel 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== I Samuel 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== I Samuel 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== I Samuel 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== I Samuel 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== I Samuel 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Samuel 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== I Samuel 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 

== I Samuel 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== I Samuel 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== I Samuel 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 

== I Samuel 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== I Samuel 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== I Samuel 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 

== I Samuel 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== I Samuel 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== I Samuel 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== I Samuel 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== I Samuel 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 

== I Samuel 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Samuel 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== I Samuel 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Samuel 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== I Samuel 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== I Samuel 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== II Samuel 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Samuel 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== II Samuel 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 

== II Samuel 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== II Samuel 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== II Samuel 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== II Samuel 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== II Samuel 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Samuel 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== II Samuel 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== II Samuel 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Samuel 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== II Samuel 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 

== II Samuel 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== II Samuel 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== II Samuel 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== II Samuel 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== II Samuel 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== II Samuel 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== II Samuel 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== II Samuel 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== II Samuel 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 

== II Samuel 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 

== II Samuel 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Kings 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 

== I Kings 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 

== I Kings 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== I Kings 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== I Kings 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== I Kings 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== I Kings 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 

== I Kings 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 

== I Kings 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== I Kings 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== I Kings 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== I Kings 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== I Kings 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== I Kings 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== I Kings 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== I Kings 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== I Kings 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== I Kings 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 

== I Kings 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== I Kings 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== I Kings 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== I Kings 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 

== II Kings 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Kings 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== II Kings 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Kings 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 

== II Kings 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Kings 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== II Kings 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== II Kings 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== II Kings 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== II Kings 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== II Kings 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Kings 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Kings 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== II Kings 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== II Kings 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== II Kings 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== II Kings 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 

== II Kings 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== II Kings 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== II Kings 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Kings 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== II Kings 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== II Kings 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== II Kings 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== II Kings 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== I Chronicles 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 

== I Chronicles 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 

== I Chronicles 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== I Chronicles 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== I Chronicles 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== I Chronicles 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 

== I Chronicles 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== I Chronicles 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== I Chronicles 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 

== I Chronicles 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== I Chronicles 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 

== I Chronicles 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== I Chronicles 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== I Chronicles 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== I Chronicles 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== I Chronicles 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== I Chronicles 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== I Chronicles 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== I Chronicles 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== I Chronicles 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== I Chronicles 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== I Chronicles 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== I Chronicles 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== I Chronicles 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== I Chronicles 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== I Chronicles 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== I Chronicles 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== I Chronicles 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== I Chronicles 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== II Chronicles 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== II Chronicles 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Chronicles 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== II Chronicles 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== II Chronicles 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== II Chronicles 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 

== II Chronicles 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== II Chronicles 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Chronicles 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== II Chronicles 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== II Chronicles 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== II Chronicles 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== II Chronicles 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== II Chronicles 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== II Chronicles 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== II Chronicles 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== II Chronicles 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== II Chronicles 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== II Chronicles 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== II Chronicles 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== II Chronicles 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== II Chronicles 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== II Chronicles 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Chronicles 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Chronicles 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== II Chronicles 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== II Chronicles 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== II Chronicles 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Chronicles 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== II Chronicles 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Chronicles 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Chronicles 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== II Chronicles 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== II Chronicles 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== II Chronicles 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== II Chronicles 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ezra 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Ezra 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 

== Ezra 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Ezra 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Ezra 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Ezra 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Ezra 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Ezra 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Ezra 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Ezra 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 

== Nehemiah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Nehemiah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Nehemiah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Nehemiah 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Nehemiah 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Nehemiah 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Nehemiah 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 

== Nehemiah 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Nehemiah 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Nehemiah 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 

== Nehemiah 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Nehemiah 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 

== Nehemiah 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Esther 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Esther 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Esther 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Esther 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Esther 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Esther 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Esther 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Esther 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Esther 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Esther 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 

== Job 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Job 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Job 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Job 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Job 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Job 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Job 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Job 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Job 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Job 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Job 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Job 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Job 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Job 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Job 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Job 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Job 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Job 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Job 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Job 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Job 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Job 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Job 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Job 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Job 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Job 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Job 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Job 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Job 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Job 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Job 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Job 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Job 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Job 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== Job 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Job 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Job 37 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Job 38 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 

== Job 39 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Job 40 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Job 41 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Job 42 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Psalms 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Psalms 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Psalms 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Psalms 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Psalms 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 

== Psalms 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Psalms 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Psalms 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Psalms 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Psalms 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Psalms 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Psalms 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Psalms 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Psalms 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Psalms 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 37 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Psalms 38 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Psalms 39 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 40 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 41 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 42 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 43 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 44 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Psalms 45 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 46 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 47 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 48 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Psalms 49 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Psalms 50 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Psalms 51 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Psalms 52 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 53 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Psalms 54 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 55 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Psalms 56 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 57 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 58 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 59 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 60 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 61 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 62 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 63 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 64 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 65 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 66 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Psalms 67 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 68 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Psalms 69 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Psalms 70 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 71 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Psalms 72 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Psalms 73 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Psalms 74 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Psalms 75 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 76 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 77 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Psalms 78 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 

== Psalms 79 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 80 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Psalms 81 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Psalms 82 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 83 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Psalms 84 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 85 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 86 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 87 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 88 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Psalms 89 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 

== Psalms 90 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Psalms 91 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Psalms 92 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Psalms 93 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 94 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Psalms 95 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Psalms 96 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 97 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 98 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 99 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 100 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 101 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 102 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Psalms 103 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Psalms 104 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Psalms 105 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 

== Psalms 106 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 

== Psalms 107 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 

== Psalms 108 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 109 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Psalms 110 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 111 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 112 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 113 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 114 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 115 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Psalms 116 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Psalms 117 ==
1. 
2. 

== Psalms 118 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Psalms 119 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
82. 
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 
110. 
111. 
112. 
113. 
114. 
115. 
116. 
117. 
118. 
119. 
120. 
121. 
122. 
123. 
124. 
125. 
126. 
127. 
128. 
129. 
130. 
131. 
132. 
133. 
134. 
135. 
136. 
137. 
138. 
139. 
140. 
141. 
142. 
143. 
144. 
145. 
146. 
147. 
148. 
149. 
150. 
151. 
152. 
153. 
154. 
155. 
156. 
157. 
158. 
159. 
160. 
161. 
162. 
163. 
164. 
165. 
166. 
167. 
168. 
169. 
170. 
171. 
172. 
173. 
174. 
175. 
176. 

== Psalms 120 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 121 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 122 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 123 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

== Psalms 124 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 125 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 126 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Psalms 127 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Psalms 128 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Psalms 129 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 130 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 131 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 

== Psalms 132 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Psalms 133 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 

== Psalms 134 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 

== Psalms 135 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Psalms 136 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Psalms 137 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 138 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Psalms 139 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Psalms 140 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Psalms 141 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 142 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Psalms 143 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Psalms 144 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Psalms 145 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Psalms 146 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Psalms 147 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Psalms 148 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Psalms 149 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Psalms 150 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Proverbs 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Proverbs 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Proverbs 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Proverbs 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Proverbs 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Proverbs 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Proverbs 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Proverbs 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Proverbs 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Proverbs 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Proverbs 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Proverbs 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Proverbs 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Proverbs 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Proverbs 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Proverbs 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Proverbs 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Proverbs 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Proverbs 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Proverbs 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Proverbs 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Proverbs 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Proverbs 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Proverbs 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Proverbs 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Proverbs 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Proverbs 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Proverbs 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Proverbs 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Proverbs 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Proverbs 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Ecclesiastes 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Ecclesiastes 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Ecclesiastes 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Ecclesiastes 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Ecclesiastes 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Ecclesiastes 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Ecclesiastes 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Ecclesiastes 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Ecclesiastes 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Ecclesiastes 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Ecclesiastes 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Ecclesiastes 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Song of Solomon 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Song of Solomon 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Song of Solomon 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Song of Solomon 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Song of Solomon 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Song of Solomon 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Song of Solomon 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Song of Solomon 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Isaiah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Isaiah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Isaiah 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Isaiah 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Isaiah 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Isaiah 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Isaiah 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Isaiah 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Isaiah 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Isaiah 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Isaiah 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Isaiah 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Isaiah 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Isaiah 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Isaiah 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Isaiah 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Isaiah 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Isaiah 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Isaiah 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Isaiah 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Isaiah 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Isaiah 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Isaiah 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Isaiah 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Isaiah 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Isaiah 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Isaiah 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Isaiah 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Isaiah 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Isaiah 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Isaiah 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Isaiah 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Isaiah 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 37 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Isaiah 38 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 39 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Isaiah 40 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Isaiah 41 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Isaiah 42 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Isaiah 43 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Isaiah 44 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Isaiah 45 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Isaiah 46 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Isaiah 47 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Isaiah 48 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 49 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Isaiah 50 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Isaiah 51 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Isaiah 52 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Isaiah 53 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Isaiah 54 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Isaiah 55 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Isaiah 56 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Isaiah 57 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Isaiah 58 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Isaiah 59 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Isaiah 60 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Isaiah 61 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Isaiah 62 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Isaiah 63 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Isaiah 64 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Isaiah 65 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Isaiah 66 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Jeremiah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Jeremiah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== Jeremiah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Jeremiah 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Jeremiah 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Jeremiah 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Jeremiah 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Jeremiah 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Jeremiah 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Jeremiah 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Jeremiah 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Jeremiah 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Jeremiah 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Jeremiah 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Jeremiah 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Jeremiah 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Jeremiah 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Jeremiah 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Jeremiah 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Jeremiah 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Jeremiah 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Jeremiah 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Jeremiah 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Jeremiah 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Jeremiah 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Jeremiah 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Jeremiah 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Jeremiah 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Jeremiah 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Jeremiah 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Jeremiah 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 

== Jeremiah 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 

== Jeremiah 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Jeremiah 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Jeremiah 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Jeremiah 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Jeremiah 37 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Jeremiah 38 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Jeremiah 39 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Jeremiah 40 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Jeremiah 41 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Jeremiah 42 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Jeremiah 43 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Jeremiah 44 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Jeremiah 45 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Jeremiah 46 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Jeremiah 47 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

== Jeremiah 48 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 

== Jeremiah 49 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 

== Jeremiah 50 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 

== Jeremiah 51 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 

== Jeremiah 52 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 

== Lamentations 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Lamentations 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Lamentations 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 

== Lamentations 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Lamentations 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Ezekiel 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Ezekiel 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Ezekiel 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Ezekiel 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Ezekiel 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Ezekiel 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Ezekiel 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Ezekiel 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Ezekiel 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Ezekiel 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Ezekiel 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Ezekiel 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Ezekiel 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ezekiel 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ezekiel 15 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 

== Ezekiel 16 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 

== Ezekiel 17 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Ezekiel 18 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Ezekiel 19 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Ezekiel 20 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 

== Ezekiel 21 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Ezekiel 22 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Ezekiel 23 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 

== Ezekiel 24 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Ezekiel 25 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Ezekiel 26 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Ezekiel 27 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

== Ezekiel 28 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Ezekiel 29 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Ezekiel 30 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Ezekiel 31 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Ezekiel 32 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Ezekiel 33 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Ezekiel 34 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Ezekiel 35 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Ezekiel 36 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 

== Ezekiel 37 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Ezekiel 38 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ezekiel 39 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Ezekiel 40 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 

== Ezekiel 41 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Ezekiel 42 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Ezekiel 43 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Ezekiel 44 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Ezekiel 45 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Ezekiel 46 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Ezekiel 47 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ezekiel 48 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

== Daniel 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Daniel 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 

== Daniel 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Daniel 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 

== Daniel 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Daniel 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Daniel 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== Daniel 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Daniel 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Daniel 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Daniel 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 

== Daniel 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Hosea 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Hosea 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Hosea 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

== Hosea 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Hosea 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Hosea 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Hosea 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Hosea 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Hosea 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Hosea 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Hosea 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Hosea 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Hosea 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Hosea 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Joel 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Joel 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Joel 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Amos 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Amos 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Amos 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Amos 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Amos 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== Amos 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Amos 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Amos 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Amos 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Obadiah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Jonah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Jonah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Jonah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Jonah 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Micah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Micah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Micah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Micah 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Micah 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Micah 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Micah 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Nahum 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Nahum 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Nahum 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Habakkuk 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Habakkuk 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Habakkuk 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== Zephaniah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Zephaniah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Zephaniah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== Haggai 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Haggai 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Zechariah 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Zechariah 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== Zechariah 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== Zechariah 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Zechariah 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 

== Zechariah 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Zechariah 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Zechariah 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Zechariah 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Zechariah 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== Zechariah 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Zechariah 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Zechariah 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 

== Zechariah 14 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Malachi 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Malachi 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== Malachi 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Malachi 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

== Matthew 1 ==
1. This is the boke of the generacion of Iesus Christ the sonne of Dauid the sonne also of Abraham.
2. Abraham begat Isaac: Isaac begat Iacob: Iacob begat Iudas and his brethren:
3. Iudas begat Phares and zaram of Thamar: Phares begat Hesrom: Hesrom begat Aram:
4. Aram begat Aminadab: Aminadab begat Naasson: Naasson begat Salmon:
5. Salmon begat Boos of Rahab: Boos begat Obed of Ruth: Obed begat Iesse:
6. Iesse begat Dauid the kynge: Dauid the kynge begat Salomon of her that was the wyfe of Vry:
7. Salomon begat Roboam: Roboam begat Abia: Abia begat Asa:
8. Asa begat Iosaphat: Iosaphat begat Ioram: Ioram begat Osias:
9. Osias begat Ioatham: Ioatham begat Achas: Achas begat Ezechias:
10. Ezechias begat Manasses: Manasses begat Amon: Amon begat Iosias:
11. Iosias begat Iechonias and his brethren aboute ye tyme they were caryed awaye to Babylon.
12. And after they were brought to Babylon Iechonias begat Salathiel: Salathiel begat Zorobabel:
13. Zorobabel begat Abiud: Abiud begat Eliachim: Eliachim begat Azor:
14. Azor begat Sadoc: Sadoc begat Achin: Achin begat Eliud:
15. Eliud begat Eleasar: Eleasar begat Matthan: Matthan begat Iacob:
16. Iacob begat Ioseph the husbande of Mary of which was boren that Iesus that is called Christ.
17. All the generacions from Abraham to David are fowretene generacios. And fro David vnto the captivite of Babylon are fowretene generacions. And from the captivite of Babylon vnto Christ are also fowrtene generacios.
18. The byrthe of Iesus Christ was on thys wyse. When hys mother Mary was betrouthed to Ioseph before they came to dwell to gedder she was foude with chylde by ye holy goost.
19. The Ioseph her husbande beinge a perfect ma and loth to make an ensample of hir was mynded to put her awaye secretely.
20. Whill he thus thought behold ye angell of ye Lorde appered vnto him in a dreame saynge: Ioseph ye sonne of David feare not to take vnto ye Mary thy wyfe. For that which is coceaved in her is of the holy goost.
21. She shall brynge forthe a sonne and thou shalt call his name Iesus. For he shall save his peple from their synnes.
22. All this was done to fulfill yt which was spoken of the Lorde by the Prophet saynge:
23. Beholde a mayde shall be with chylde and shall brynge forthe a sonne and they shall call his name Emanuel which is by interpretacion God with vs.
24. And Ioseph assone as he awoke out of slepe did as the angell of the Lorde bade hym and toke hys wyfe vnto hym
25. and knewe her not tyll she had brought forth hir fyrst sonne and called hys name Iesus.

== Matthew 2 ==
1. When Iesus was borne at Bethleem in Iury in the tyme of Herode the kynge. Beholde there came wyse me from the eest to Ierusalem
2. saynge: Where is he yt is borne kynge of ye Iues? We have sene his starre in ye eest and are come to worship him.
3. When Herode ye kynge had herde thys he was troubled and all Ierusalem with hym
4. and he gathered all ye chefe Prestes and Scribes of the people and axed of them where Christ shulde be borne.
5. And they sayde vnto hym: at Bethlee in Iury. For thus it is written by the Prophet.
6. And thou Bethleem in the londe of Iury art not the leest concernynge the Princes of Iuda. For out of the shall come the captayne that shall govern my people Israhel.
7. Then Herod prevely called the wyse men and dyligetly enquyred of them ye tyme of the starre that appered
8. and sent the to Bethleem saynge: Goo and searche dyligetly for ye chylde. And when ye have founde hym bringe me worde yt I maye come and worshippe hym also.
9. When they had heard the kynge they departed: and lo the starre which they sawe in ye eeste went before them tyll it came and stode over the place where the chylde was.
10. When they sawe the starre they were marvelously glad:
11. and went into the house and found the chylde with Mary hys mother and kneled doune and worshipped hym and opened their treasures and offred vnto hym gyftes gold frackynsence and myrre.
12. And after they were warned of God in a dreame that they shuld not go ageyne to Herod they retourned into their awne countre another waye.
13. When they were departed: beholde the angell of the Lorde appered to Ioseph in dreame sayinge: aryse and take the chylde and his mother and flye into Egypte and abyde there tyll I brynge the worde. For Herod will seke the chylde to destroye hym.
14. The he arose and toke the chylde and his mother by night and departed into Egypte
15. and was there vnto ye deeth of Herod to fulfill that which was spoken of the Lorde by ye Prophet which sayeth out of Egypte haue I called my sonne.
16. Then Herod perceavynge yt he was moocked of the wyse men was excedynge wroth and sent forth and slue all the chyldren that were in Bethleem and in all the costes there of as many as were two yere olde and vnder accordynge to the tyme which he had diligetly searched oute of the wyse men.
17. Then was fulfilled yt which was spoken by the Prophet Ieremy sayinge:
18. On the hilles was a voyce herde mornynge wepynge and greate lamentacion: Rachel wepynge for her chyldren and wolde not be conforted because they were not.
19. When Herode was deed: beholde an angell of ye Lorde appered in a dreame to Ioseph in Egypte
20. sayinge: arise and take ye chylde and his mother and go into ye londe of Israel. For they are deed which sought ye chyldes life.
21. The he arose vp and toke ye chylde and his mother and cam into the londe of Israhel.
22. But whe he hearde yt Archelaus did raygne in Iury in ye roume of his father Herode he was afrayde to goo thither. Not withstondynge after he was warned of god in a dreame he turned a syde into ye parties of Galile
23. and wet and dwelt in a cite called Nazareth to fulfill yt which was spoken by ye Prophetes: he shalbe called a Nazarite

== Matthew 3 ==
1. In those dayes Ihon the Baptyst came and preached in the wildernes of Iury
2. saynge; Repet the kyngdome of heue is at honde.
3. This is he of whom it is spoken by the Prophet Esay which sayeth: The voyce of a cryer in wyldernes prepare the Lordes waye and make hys pathes strayght.
4. This Iho had hys garmet of camels heer and a gerdell of a skynne aboute his loynes. Hys meate was locustes and wylde hony.
5. The went oute to hym Ierusalem and all Iury and all ye regio roude aboute Iorda
6. and were baptised of him in Iorda cofessynge their synnes.
7. When he sawe many of ye Pharises and of ye Saduces come to hys baptim he sayde vnto the: O generacio of vipers who hath taught you to fle fro the vengeauce to come?
8. Brynge forth therfore the frutes belongynge to repentauce.
9. And se that ye ons thynke not to saye in your selues we haue Abraham to oure father. For I saye vnto you that God is able of these stones to rayse vp chyldern vnto Abraha.
10. Euenowe is ye axe put vnto ye rote of ye trees: soo that every tree which bringeth not forthe goode frute is hewe doune and cast into ye fyre.
11. I baptise you in water in toke of repentauce: but he ye cometh after me is myghtier then I whose shues I am not worthy to beare. He shall baptise you with ye holy gost and with fyre:
12. which hath also his fan in his hod and will pourge his floure and gadre ye wheet into his garner and will burne ye chaffe with vnquecheable fyre
13. Then cam Iesus from Galile to Iordan vnto Ihon to be baptised of hym.
14. But Ihon forbade hym saynge: I ought to be baptysed of the: and comest thou to me?
15. Iesus answered and sayd to hym: Let it be so now. For thus it becommeth vs to fulfyll all rightwesnes. Then he suffred hym.
16. And Iesus assone as he was baptised came strayght out of ye water. And lo heue was ope over hym: and Ihon sawe the spirite of God descende lyke a doue and lyght vpon hym.
17. And lo there came a voyce from heven sayng: Thys ys that my beloved sonne in whom is my delyte.

== Matthew 4 ==
1. Then was Iesus ledd awaye of ye spirite into wildernes to be tempted of ye devyll.
2. And when he had fasted fourtye dayes and fourtye nightes he was afterward an hungred.
3. Then came to hym the tempter and sayde: yf thou be the sonne of God commaunde that these stones be made breed.
4. He answered and sayde: yt is wrytten man shall not lyve by brede onlye but by every worde yt proceadeth out of the mouth of God.
5. Then the devyll tooke hym vp into ye holy cite and set hym on a pynacle of the teple
6. and sayd vnto hym: yf thou be the sonne of God cast thy sylfe doune. For it is wrytte he shall geve his angels charge over the and with their handes they shall holde yt vp that thou dashe not thy fote agaynst a stone.
7. And Iesus sayde to hym it ys wrytten also: Thou shalt not tempte thy Lorde God.
8. The devyll toke hym vp agayne and ledde hym in to an excedynge hye mountayne and shewed hym all the kyngdomes of ye worlde and all ye glorie of them
9. and sayde to hym: all these will I geue ye if thou wilt faull doune and worship me.
10. Then sayde Iesus vnto hym. Avoyd Satan. For it is writte thou shalt worshyp ye Lorde thy God and hym only shalt thou serve.
11. Then the dyvell left hym and beholde the angels came and ministred vnto hym.
12. When Iesus had hearde yt Ihon was taken he departed into Galile
13. and left Nazareth and went and dwelte in Capernaum which is a cite apon the see in ye coostes of zabulon and Neptalim
14. to fulfill that whiche was spoken by Esay the Prophet sayinge:
15. The londe of zabulon and Neptalim the waye of the see beyonde Iordan Galile of the Gentyls
16. ye people which sat in darknes sawe greate lyght and to them which sate in the region and shadowe of deeth lyght is begone to shyne.
17. From yt tyme Iesus begane to preache and to saye: repet for ye kigdome of heve is at hode.
18. As Iesus walked by the see of Galile he sawe two brethren: Simon which was called Peter and Andrew his brother castynge a neet into the see for they were fisshers
19. and he sayde vnto them folowe me and I will make you fisshers of men.
20. And they strayght waye lefte their nettes and folowed hym.
21. And he went forthe from thence and sawe other twoo brethren Iames the sonne of zebede and Ihon his brother in the shippe with zebede their father mendynge their nettes and called them.
22. And they with out taryinge lefte the shyp and their father and folowed hym.
23. And Iesus went aboute all Galile teachyng in their synagoges and preachynge ye gospell of the kyngdome and healed all maner of sicknes and all maner dyseases amoge ye people.
24. And his fame spreed abroode through oute all Siria. And they brought vnto hym all sicke people that were taken with divers diseases and gripinges and them yt were possessed with devils and those which were lunatyke and those that had the palsie: and he healed the.
25. And ther folowed hym a greate nombre of people from Galile and from the ten cyties and from Ierusalem and from Iury and from ye regions that lye beyonde Iordan.

== Matthew 5 ==
1. When he sawe the people he went vp into a mountayne and when he was set his disciples came to hym
2. and he opened hys mouthe and taught them sayinge:
3. Blessed are the povre in sprete: for theirs is the kyngdome of heven.
4. Blessed are they that morne: for they shalbe conforted.
5. Blessed are the meke: for they shall inheret the erth.
6. Blessed are they which honger and thurst for rightewesnes: for they shalbe filled.
7. Blessed are ye mercifull: for they shall obteyne mercy.
8. Blessed are the pure in herte: for they shall se God.
9. Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shalbe called the chyldren of God.
10. Blessed are they which suffre persecucio for rightwesnes sake: for theirs ys the kyngdome of heuen.
11. Blessed are ye when men reuyle you and persecute you and shall falsly say all manner of yvell saynges agaynst you for my sake.
12. Reioyce and be glad for greate is youre rewarde in heven. + For so persecuted they ye Prophetes which were before youre dayes.
13. ye are ye salt of the erthe: but and yf ye salt have lost hir saltnes what can be salted ther with? It is thence forthe good for nothynge but to be cast oute and to be troade vnder fote of men.
14. Ye are ye light of the worlde. A cite yt is set on an hill cannot be hid
15. nether do men lyght a cadell and put it vnder a busshell but on a candelstick and it lighteth all that are in the house.
16. Let youre light so shyne before men yt they maye se youre good workes and glorify youre father which is in heven.
17. Thinke not yt I am come to destroye the lawe or the Prophets: no I am nott come to destroye them but to fulfyll them.
18. For truely I saye vnto you till heven and erth perisshe one iott or one tytle of the lawe shall not scape tyll all be fulfilled.
19. Whosoever breaketh one of these lest commaundmentes and teacheth men so he shalbe called the leest in the kyngdome of heve. But whosoever obserueth and teacheth ye same shal be called greate in the kyngdome of heven.
20. For I saye vnto you except youre rightewesnes excede the righetewesnes of ye Scribes and Pharises ye canot entre into ye kyngdome of heven.
21. Ye have herde howe it was sayd vnto the of ye olde tyme: Thou shalt not kyll. For whoso ever kylleth shall be in daunger of iudgemet.
22. But I say vnto you whosoever is angre with hys brother shalbe in daunger of iudgement. Whosoeuer sayeth vnto his brother Racha shalbe in dauger of a cousell. But whosoeuer sayeth thou fole shalbe in dauger of hell fyre.
23. Therfore whe thou offrest thy gifte at the altare and their remembrest that thy brother hath ought agaynst the:
24. leue there thyne offrynge before the altre and go thy waye first and be reconcyled to thy brother and then come and offre thy gyfte.
25. Agre with thyne adversary quicklye whyles thou arte in ye waye with hym lest that adversary deliver ye to ye iudge and ye iudge delivre ye to ye minister and the thou be cast into preson.
26. I say vnto ye verely: thou shalt not come out thece till thou have payed ye utmost farthige.
27. Ye haue hearde howe it was sayde to the of olde tyme: Thou shalt not comitt advoutrie.
28. But I say vnto you that whosoeuer looketh on a wyfe lustynge after her hathe comitted advoutrie with hir alredy in his hert.
29. Wherfore yf thy right eye offende ye plucke hym out and caste him from the. Better it is for the yt one of thy membres perisshe then that thy hole bodye shuld be cast into hell.
30. Also if thy right honde offend ye cut hym of and caste hym from the. Better yt ys that one of thy membres perisshe then that all thy body shulde be caste in to hell.
31. It ys sayd whosoever put awaye his wyfe let hym geve her a testymonyall also of the devorcement.
32. But I say vnto you: whosoever put awaye his wyfe (except it be for fornicacion) causeth her to breake matrymony. And whosoever maryeth her that is devorsed breaketh wedlocke.
33. Agayne ye haue hearde how it was sayd to the of olde tyme thou shalt not forsuere thy selfe but shalt performe thyne othe to God.
34. But I saye vnto you swere not at all nether by heue for it ys Goddes seate:
35. nor yet by the erth for it is his fote stole: nether by Ierusalem for it ys ye cyte of yt greate kynge:
36. nether shalt thou sweare by thy heed because thou canst not make one white heer or blacke:
37. But your comunicacion shalbe ye ye: nay nay. For whatsoeuer is more then yt cometh of yvell.
38. Ye have hearde how it ys sayd an eye for an eye: a tothe for a tothe.
39. But I saye to you that ye resist not wroge. But whosoever geve the a blowe on thy right cheke tourne to him the other.
40. And yf eny man will sue the at the lawe and take awaye thy coote let hym have thy cloocke also.
41. And whosoever wyll copell the to goo a myle goo wyth him twayne.
42. Geve to him that axeth and fro him that wolde borowe tourne not awaye.
43. Ye have hearde how it is sayde: thou shalt love thyne neghbour and hate thine enimy.
44. But I saye vnto you love youre enimies. Blesse the that coursse you. Do good to them that hate you. Praye for them which doo you wronge and persecute you
45. that ye maye be ye chyldern of youre father that is in heauen: for he maketh his sunne to aryse on ye yvell and on the good and sendeth his reyn on the iuste and vniuste.
46. For yf ye love them which love you: what rewarde shall ye have? Doo not the Publicans euen so?
47. 
48. And yf ye be frendly to youre brethren onlye: what singuler thynge doo ye? Do not the Publicans lyke wyse? ye shall therfore be perfecte eve as youre father which is in heauen is perfecte.

== Matthew 6 ==
1. Take hede to youre almes. That ye geve it not in the syght of men to the intent that ye wolde be sene of them. Or els ye get no rewarde of youre father which is in heve.
2. Whe soever therfore thou gevest thine almes thou shalt not make a tropet to be blowe before the as ye ypocrites do in the synagogis and in the stretis for to be preysed of men. Verely I say vnto you they have their rewarde.
3. But whe thou doest thine almes let not thy lyfte had knowe what thy righte had doth
4. yt thine almes may be secret: and thy father which seith in secret shall rewarde ye opely.
5. And when thou prayest thou shalt not be as ye ypocrytes are. For they love to stond and praye in the synagoges and in the corners of ye stretes because they wolde be sene of men. Verely I saye vnto you they haue their rewarde.
6. But when thou prayest entre into thy chamber and shut thy dore to the and praye to thy father which ys in secrete: and thy father which seith in secret shall rewarde the openly.
7. And whe ye praye bable not moche as the hethe do: for they thincke that they shalbe herde for their moche bablynges sake.
8. Be ye not lyke them therfore. For youre father knoweth wherof ye haue neade before ye axe of him.
9. After thys maner therfore praye ye. O oure father which arte in heve halowed be thy name.
10. Let thy kyngdome come. Thy wyll be fulfilled as well in erth as it ys in heven.
11. Geve vs this daye oure dayly breede.
12. And forgeve vs oure treaspases eve as we forgeve oure trespacers.
13. And leade vs not into teptacion: but delyver vs fro evell. For thyne is ye kyngedome and ye power and ye glorye for ever. Amen.
14. For and yf ye shall forgeve other men their treaspases youre hevenly father shall also forgeve you.
15. But and ye wyll not forgeve men their trespases nomore shall youre father forgeve youre treaspases.
16. Moreoure when ye faste be not sad as ye ypocrytes are. For they disfigure their faces that they myght be sene of me how they faste. Verely I say vnto you they have their rewarde.
17. But thou whe thou fastest annoynte thyne heed and washe thy face
18. that it appere not vnto men howe that thou fastest: but vnto thy father which is in secrete: and thy father which seeth in secret shall rewarde the openly.
19. Se that ye gaddre you not treasure vpon ye erth where rust and mothes corrupte and where theves breake through and steale.
20. But gaddre ye treasure togeder in heve where nether rust nor mothes corrupte and where theves nether breake vp nor yet steale.
21. For where soever youre treasure ys there will youre hertes be also.
22. The light of the body is thyne eye. Wher fore if thyne eye besyngle all thy body shalbe full of light.
23. But and if thyne eye be wycked then all thy body shalbe full of derckenes. Wherfore yf the light that is in the be darckenes: how greate is that darckenes.
24. No ma can serve two masters. For ether he shall hate the one and love the other: or els he shall lene to ye one and despise ye other: ye can not serve God and mammon.
25. Therfore I saye vnto you be not carefull for your lyfe what ye shall eate or what ye shall drincke nor yet for youre body what ye shall put on. ys not ye lyfe more worth then meate and the body more of value then raymeut?
26. Beholde the foules of ye ayer: for they sowe not nether reepe nor yet cary into ye barnes: and yet youre hevely father fedeth the. Are ye not moche better the they?
27. Which of you (though he toke thought therfore) coulde put one cubit vnto his stature?
28. And why care ye then for raymet? Considre ye lylies of ye felde how they growe. They labour not nether spynne.
29. And yet for all yt I saye vnto you yt eue Salomon in all his royalte was not arayed lyke vnto one of these.
30. Wherfore yf God so clothe the grasse which ys to daye in the felde and to morowe shalbe caste in to the fournace: shall he not moche more do the same vnto you o ye of lytle fayth?
31. Therfore take no thought sayinge: what shall we eate or what shall we drincke or wherwt shall we be clothed?
32. After all these thynges seke the getyls. For youre hevely father knoweth that ye have neade of all these thynges.
33. But rather seke ye fyrst the kyngdome of heuen and the rightwisnes therof and all these thynges shalbe ministred vnto you.
34. Care not then for the morow but let ye morow care for it selfe: for the daye present hath ever ynough of his awne trouble.

== Matthew 7 ==
1. Iudge not that ye be not iudged.
2. For as ye iudge so shall ye be iudged. And wt what mesure ye mete wt the same shall it be mesured to you agayne.
3. Why seist thou a moote in thy brothers eye and perceavest not the beame yt ys yn thyne awne eye.
4. Or why sayest thou to thy brother: suffre me to plucke oute the moote oute of thyne eye and behold a beame is in thyne awne eye.
5. Ypocryte fyrst cast oute the beame oute of thyne awne eye and then shalte thou se clearly to plucke oute the moote out of thy brothers eye.
6. Geve not that which is holy to dogges nether cast ye youre pearles before swyne lest they treade them vnder their fete and ye other tourne agayne and all to rent you.
7. Axe and it shalbe geven you. Seke and ye shall fynd. knocke and it shalbe opened vnto you.
8. For whosoever axeth receaveth and he yt seketh fyndeth and to hym that knocketh it shalbe opened.
9. Ys there eny man amoge you which if his sonne axed hym bread wolde offer him astone?
10. Or if he axed fysshe wolde he proffer hym a serpet?
11. Yf ye then which are evyll cane geve to youre chyldren good gyftes: how moche moore shall youre father which is in heve geve good thynges to them yt axe hym?
12. Therfore whatsoever ye wolde that men shulde do to you even so do ye to them. This ys the lawe and the Prophettes.
13. Enter in at the strayte gate: for wyde is ye gate and broade is the waye that leadeth to destruccion: and many ther be which goo yn therat.
14. But strayte is the gate and narowe ys the waye which leadeth vnto lyfe: and feawe there be that fynde it.
15. Beware of false Prophetes which come to you in shepes clothinge but inwardly they are ravenynge wolves.
16. Ye shall knowe them by their frutes. Do men gaddre grapes of thornes? or figges of bryres?
17. Euen soo every good tree bryngeth forthe good frute. But a corrupte tree bryngethe forthe evyll frute.
18. A good tree canot brynge forthe bad frute: nor yet a bad tree can bringe forthe good frute.
19. Every tree that bryngethe not forthe good frute shalbe hewe doune and cast into the fyre.
20. Wherfore by their frutes ye shall knowe the.
21. Not all they that saye vnto me Master Master shall enter in to the kyngdome of heven: but he that dothe my fathers will which ys in heven.
22. Many will saye to me in that daye Master master have we not in thy name prophesied? And in thy name have caste oute devyls? And in thy name have done many miracles?
23. And then will I knowlege vnto them that I never knewe them. Departe from me ye workers of iniquite.
24. Whosoever heareth of me these sayinges and doethe the same I wyll lyken hym vnto a wyse man which bylt hys housse on a rocke:
25. and aboundance of rayne descended and the fluddes came and the wyndes blewe and bet vpon that same housse and it fell not because it was grounded on the rocke.
26. And whosoever heareth of me these sayinges and doth the not shalbe lykened vnto a folysh man which bilt hys housse apo the sondes:
27. and abundauce of rayne descended and the fluddes came and ye wyndes blewe and beet vpon that housse and it fell and great was the fall of it.
28. And it came to passe that when Iesus had ended these saynges the people were astonnyed at hys doctryne.
29. For he taught them as one havynge power and not as the Scribes.

== Matthew 8 ==
1. When he was come downe from the moutayne moch people folowed him.
2. And lo ther came a lepre and worsheped him sayinge: Master if thou wylt thou canst make me clene.
3. And Iesus put forthe hys hond and touched hym sayinge: I wyll be thou clene and immediatly hys leprosie was clensed.
4. And Iesus sayde vnto him. Se thou tell no man but go and shewe thy selfe to the preste and offer the gyfte that Moses comaunded in witnes to them.
5. When Iesus was entred into Capernau ther came vnto him a certayne Centurion and besought hym
6. sayinge: Master my seruaunt lyeth sicke at home of ye palsye and ys greuously payned.
7. And Iesus sayd vnto hym: I will come and heale him.
8. The Centurio answered and sayde: Syr I am not worthy yt thou shuldest come vnder my rofe but speake ye worde only and my servaut shalbe healed.
9. For I also my selfe am a man vndre power and have sowdiers vndre me and I saye to one go and he goeth and to anothre come and he cometh: and to my seruaut do this and he doeth it.
10. When Iesus hearde yt he marveled and sayd to them yt folowed hym. Derely I say vnto you I have not foude so great fayth: no not in Israel.
11. I say therfore vnto you that many shall come fro the eest and weest and shall rest wt Abraham Isaac and Iacob in the kingdome of heve:
12. and the chyldren of ye kyngdome shalbe cast out in to vtter darcknes: there shalbe wepinge and gnasshing of tethe.
13. The Iesus sayd vnto ye Centurion go thy waye and as thou belevest so be it vnto the. And his servaunt was healed the selfe houre.
14. And then Iesus went to Peters housse and sawe hys wyves mother lyinge sicke of a fevre
15. and touched her hande and the fevre left hir: and she arose and ministred vnto them.
16. When the eue was come they brought vn to him many yt were possessed with devyllis. And he cast out ye spirites with a worde and healed all yt were sicke
17. to fulfill yt which was spoke by Esayas ye Prophet sayinge. He toke on him oure infirmities and bare oure sickneses.
18. Whe Iesus sawe moche people about him he comaunded to go over ye water.
19. And ther came a scribe and sayd vnto hym: master I wyll folowe ye whyther so ever thou goest.
20. And Iesus sayd vnto him: the foxes have holes and the bryddes of the ayer have nestes but ye sonne of the man hath not whero to rest his heede.
21. A nothre yt was one of hys disciples sayd vnto hym: master suffre me fyrst to go and burye my father.
22. But Iesus sayd vnto him: folowe me and let the deed burie their deed.
23. And he entred in to a shyppe and his disciples folowed him.
24. And beholde there arose a a greate tepest in ye see in so moche yt the shippe was covered wt waves and he was a slepe.
25. And his disciples came vn to him and awoke hym sayinge: master save vs we perishe.
26. And he sayd vnto them: why are ye fearfull o ye of lytell faithe? Then he arose and rebuked ye wyndes and the see and ther folowed a greate calme.
27. And the men marveyled and sayd: what man is this that bothe wyndes and see obey hym?
28. And when he was come to ye other syde in to ye coutre of ye Gergesites ther met him two possessed of devylles which came out of the graves and were out of measure fearce so yt no ma myght go by that waye.
29. And behold they cryed out sayinge: O Iesu the sonne of God what have we to do with the? Art thou come hyther to tormet vs before the tyme be come?
30. And ther was a good waye of fro them a greate heerd of swyne fedinge.
31. Then ye devyles besought him sayinge: if thou cast vs out suffre vs to go oure waye in to the heerd of swyne.
32. And he sayd vnto the: go youre wayes. Then wet they out and departed into ye heerd of swyne And beholde ye whoale heerd of swyne was caryed wt violence hedlinge in to the see and perisshed in ye water.
33. Then ye heerdme fleed and wet their ways in to ye cyte and tolde every thinge and what had fortuned vnto the possessed of the devyls.
34. And beholde all the cyte came out and met Iesus. And when they sawe hym they besought hym to departe oute of their costes.

== Matthew 9 ==
1. Then he entred in to a shippe and passed over and came in to his awne cite.
2. And lo they brought to him a ma sicke of ye palsie lyinge in his bed. And when Iesus sawe ye faith of the he sayd to the sicke of ye palsie: sonne be of good chere thy sinnes be forgeve the.
3. And beholde certeyne of ye scribes sayd in the selves this ma blasphemeth.
4. And whe Iesus sawe their thoughtes he sayd: wherfore thinke ye evill in youre hertes?
5. Whether ys esyer to saye thy synnes be forgeven ye or to saye: arise and walke?
6. That ye maye knowe that ye sonne of ma hath power to forgeve sinnes in erth then sayd he vnto ye sicke of ye palsye: arise take vp thy beed and go home to thine housse.
7. And he arose and departed to his awne housse.
8. And when ye people sawe it they marveyled and glorified god which had geve suche power to me.
9. And as Iesus passed forth fro thence he sawe a ma syt a receyuinge of custome named Mathew and sayd to him: folowe me.
10. And he arose and folowed him. And it came to passe as he sat at meate in the housse: beholde many publicans and synners came and sate downe also with Iesus and hys disciples.
11. When the Pharises sawe that they sayd to hys disciples: why eateth youre master wt publicans and synners?
12. When Iesus herde that he sayde vnto them: The whole neade not the phisicion but they that are sicke.
13. Goo and learne what that meaneth: I have pleasure in mercy and not in offerynge. For I am not come to call the rightewes but the synners to repentaunce.
14. Then came ye disciples of Ihon to hym sayinge: why do we and the Pharises fast ofte: but thy disciples fast not?
15. And Iesus sayde vnto them: Can ye weddynge chyldren morne as longe as ye bridegrome is wt them? The tyme will come whe the bridegrome shalbe take fro them and then shall they faste.
16. Noo man peceth and olde garment with a pece of newe cloothe. For then taketh he awaye ye pece agayne from the garmet and the rent ys made greater.
17. Nether do men put newe wyne into olde vessels for then the vessels breake and the wyne runneth oute and the vessels perysshe. But they powre newe wyne into newe vessels and so are both saved togeder.
18. Whyls he thus spake vnto the beholde ther came a certayne ruler and worshipped him sayinge: my doghter is euen now deceased but come and lay thy honde on her and she shall live.
19. And Iesus arose and folowed hym with hys disciples.
20. And beholde a woman which was diseased wt an yssue of bloude.xii. yeres came behynde hym and toched ye hem of hys vesture.
21. For she sayd in her silfe: yf I maye toche but even his vesture only I shalbe safe.
22. Then Iesus tourned him about and behelde her sayinge: Doughter be of good conforte thy faith hath made the safe. And she was made whole even that same houre.
23. And when Iesus came into ye rulers housse and sawe the minstrels and the people raginge
24. he sayde vnto them: Get you hence for ye mayde is not deed but slepeth. And they laughed hym to scorne.
25. Assone as ye people were put forthe he went in and toke her by ye hond and the mayde arose.
26. And this was noysed through out all that lande.
27. And as Iesus departed thence two blynde men folowed hym crying and saying: O thou sonne of David have mercy on vs.
28. And when he was come to housse the blynd came to hym And Iesus sayde vnto them: Beleve ye that I am able to do thys? And they sayde vnto hym: ye Lorde.
29. Then touched he their eyes saying: acordynge to youre faythe be it vnto you.
30. And their eyes were opened. And Iesus charged the saying: Se yt no man knowe of it.
31. But they assone as they were departed spreed abroade his name through oute all the londe.
32. As they went out beholde they brought to hym a dome ma possessed af a devyll.
33. And as sone as the devyll was cast oute the domme spake: And the people merveled sayinge: it was never so sene in Israel.
34. But the Pharises sayde: he casteth oute devyls by the power of the chefe devyll.
35. And Iesus went about all cities and tounes teachynge in their synagoges and preachyng the glad tidinges of ye kyngdome and healinge all maner sicknes and desease amoge ye people.
36. But when he sawe the people he had copassion on the because they were pyned awaye and scattered abroade eve as shepe havige no shepherd.
37. Then sayde he to hys disciples: the hervest is greate but the laborers are feawe.
38. Wherfore praye the Lorde of the harvest to sende forthe laborers into hys harvest.

== Matthew 10 ==
1. And he called his.xii. disciples vnto hym and gave them power over vnclene sprites to cast them oute and to heale all maner of sicknesses and all maner of deseases.
2. The names of the.xii. Apostles are these. The fyrst Simon called also Peter: and Andrew his brother. Iames the sonne of zebede aud Ihon his brother.
3. Philip and Bartlemew. Thomas and Mathew the Publican. Iames the sonne of Alphe and Lebbeus otherwyse called Taddeus.
4. Simon of Cane and Iudas Iscarioth which also betrayed hym.
5. These.xii. sent Iesus and comaunded them sayinge: Go not in to ye wayes yt leade to the gentyls and in to ye cities of ye Samaritans enter ye not.
6. But go rather to ye lost shepe of the housse of Israel.
7. Go and preach sayinge: yt the kyngdome of heve is at hande.
8. Heale the sicke clense the lepers rayse the deed caste oute the devils. Frely ye have receved frely geve agayne.
9. Posses not golde nor silver nor brassse yn youre gerdels
10. nor yet scrip towardes your iorney: nether two cotes nether shues nor yet a staffe. For the workma is worthy to have his meate.
11. In to whatsoever cite or toune ye shall come enquyre who ys worthy yn it and there abyde till ye goo thence.
12. And whe ye come in to an housse salute ye same.
13. And yf the housse be worthy youre peace shall come apon it. But yf it be not worthy youre peace shall retourne to you agayne.
14. And whosoever shall not receave you nor will heare youre preachynge: when ye departe oute of yt housse or that cite shake of the duste of youre fete.
15. Truly I say vnto you: it shalbe easier for the londe of zodoma and Gomorra in the daye of iudgement then for that cite.
16. Beholde I sende you forthe as shepe amoge wolves. Be ye therfore wyse as serpetes and innocent as doves.
17. Beware of men for they shall deliver you vp to ye cousels and shall scourge you in their synagoges.
18. And ye shall be brought to the heed rulers and kynges for my sake in witnes to them and to the gentyls.
19. But when they delyver you vp take no thought how or what ye shall speake for yt shalbe geve you eve in that same houre what ye shall saye.
20. For it is not ye that speke but ye sprite of your father which speaketh in you.
21. The brother shall betraye the brother to deeth and the father the sonne. And the chyldre shall aryse agaynste their fathers and mothers and shall put them to deethe:
22. and ye shall be hated of all me for my name. But he that endureth to the ende shalbe saved.
23. When they persecute you in one cite flye in to another. I tell you for a treuth ye shall not fynysshe all yt cities of Israel tyll ye sonne of man be come.
24. The disciple ys not above hys master: nor yet ye servaut above his lorde.
25. It is ynough for the disciple to be as hys master ys and that the servaunt be as his lorde ys. yf they have called the lorde of the housse beelzebub: how moche more shall they call them of his housholde so?
26. Feare the not therfore. There is no thinge so close that shall not be openned and no thinge so hyd that shall not be knowen.
27. What I tell you in dercknes that speake ye in lyght. And what ye heare in the eare that preache ye on the housse toppes.
28. And feare ye not them which kyll the body and be not able to kyll the soule. But rather feare hym which is able to destroye bothe soule and body into hell.
29. Are not two sparowes solde for a farthinge? And none of them dothe lyght on the grounde with out youre father.
30. And now are all the heeris of youre heedis numbred.
31. Feare ye not therfore: ye are of more value then many sparowes.
32. Who soever therfore shall knowledge me before men hym will I knowledge also before my father which is in heuen.
33. But whoso ever shall denye me before men hym will I also denye before my father which is in heven.
34. Thynke not that I am come to sende peace into the erth. I came not to send peace but a swearde.
35. For I am come to set a man at varyaunce ageynst hys father and the doughter ageynst hyr mother and the doughterlawe ageynst her motherlawe:
36. And a mannes fooes shalbe they of hys owne housholde.
37. He that lovith hys father or mother more then me is not mete for me. And he that loveth his sonne or doughter more then me is not mete for me.
38. And he yt taketh not his crosse and foloweth me ys not mete for me.
39. He that fyndeth hys lyfe shall lose it: and he that losith hys lyfe for my sake shall fynde it.
40. He that receavith you receavith me: and he that receavith me receavith him that sent me.
41. He that receavith a prophet in ye name of a prophet shall receave a prophetes rewarde. And he that receavith a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receave the rewarde of a righteous man.
42. And whosoever shall geve vnto one of these lytle ones to drincke a cuppe of colde water only in the name of a disciple: I tel you of a trueth he shall not lose his rewarde.

== Matthew 11 ==
1. And it came to passe when Iesus had made an ende of comaundinge his.xii. disciples that he departed thence to teache and to preache in their cities.
2. When Ihon beinge in preson hearde ye workes of Christ he sent two of his disciples
3. and sayde vnto him. Arte thou he that shall come: or shall we loke for another.
4. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them. Go and shewe Ihon what ye have hearde and sene.
5. The blynd se the halt goo the lepers are clensed: the deef heare the ded ryse ageyne and the glad tidinges is preached to the povre.
6. And happy is he that is not offended by me.
7. And as they departed Iesus begane to speake vnto the people of Ihon. What for to se wet ye out in to the wyldernes? wet ye out to se a rede shake with ye wynde?
8. other what wet ye out for to se? A man clothed in soofte raymet:? Beholde they yt weare soofte clothig are in kynges howses.
9. But what wet ye oute for to se? A prophete? Ye I saye to you and more the a prophete.
10. For this is he of who it is wrytte. Beholde I sende my messenger before thy face which shall prepare thy waye before ye.
11. Verely I saye vnto you amonge ye chyldren of wemen arose there not a gretter then Ihon the baptist. Notwithstondinge he that ys lesse in the kyngdome of heven ys gretter then he.
12. From the tyme of Ihon Baptist hytherto ye kyngdome of heve suffreth violence and they that go to it with violence pluck it vnto them.
13. For all the prophetes and the lawe prophesyed vnto to the tyme of Ihon.
14. Also yf ye wyll receave it this is Helyas which shuld come.
15. He yt hathe eares to heare let him heare.
16. But wher vnto shall I lyken this generacion? It ys lyke vnto chyldre which syt in the market and call vnto their felowes
17. and saye: we have pyped vnto you and ye have not daunsed? We have morned vnto you and ye have not sorowed.
18. For Ihon came nether eatinge nor drinkinge and they saye he hath the devyll.
19. The sonne of man came eatinge and drinkinge and they saye beholde a glutton and drynker of wyne and a frend vnto publicas and synners. Never the later wysdome ys iustified of hir children.
20. Then bega he to vpbrayd the cities in which most of his miracles were done because they meded not.
21. Wo be to ye Chorasin. Wo be to ye Betzaida: for if the miracles which were shewd in you had bene done in Tyre and Sidon they had repented longe agone in sackcloth and asshes.
22. Neverthelesse I say to you: it shall be esier for Tyre and Sidon at the day of iudgemet then for you.
23. And thou Capernau which art lift vp vnto heve shalt be brought doune to hell. For if the miracles which have bene done in the had bene shewed in zodom: they had remayned to this daye.
24. Neverthelesse I saye vnto you: it shalbe easiar for ye londe of zodo in the daye of iudgemet the for ye.
25. At yt tyme Iesus answered and sayd: I prayse ye o father lorde of heve and erth because thou hast hid these thinges fro the wyse and prudet and hast opened the vnto babes:
26. eve so father for so it pleased ye.
27. All thinges are geve vnto me of my father. And noma knoweth ye sonne but ye father: nether knoweth eny ma ye father save ye sonne and he to whome ye sonne will ope him.
28. Come vnto me all ye that laboure and are laden and I wyll ease you.
29. Take my yoke on you and lerne of me for I am meke and lowly in herte: and ye shall fynd rest vnto youre soules.
30. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.

== Matthew 12 ==
1. In that tyme went Iesus on the Sabot dayes thorow the corne and his disciples were anhogred and begane to plucke the eares of coorne and to eate.
2. When ye pharises sawe that they sayde vnto him: Beholde thy disciples do that which is not lawfull to do apon ye saboth daye.
3. He sayde vnto the: Haue ye not reed what David did whe he was anhougered and they also which were with him?
4. How he entred into the housse of God and ate ye halowed loves which were not lawfull for him to eate nether for the which were wt him but only for ye prestes.
5. Or have ye not reed in ye lawe how that ye prestes in ye temple breake the saboth daye and yet are blamlesse?
6. But I saye vnto you: that here is one greater then ye teple.
7. Wherfore yf ye had wist what this sayinge meneth: I require mercy and not sacrifice: ye wold never have condened innocetes.
8. For ye sonne of man is lord even of ye saboth daye.
9. And he departed thence and went into their synagoge:
10. and beholde ther was a man whiche had his hande dryed vp. And they axed him sayinge: ys it lawfull to heale apon ye saboth dayes? because they myght acuse him.
11. And he sayde vnto the: whiche of you wolde it be yf he had a shepe fallen into a pitte on ye saboth daye that wolde not take him and lyft him out?
12. And how moche is a man better the a shepe? Wherfore it is lefull to do a good dede on the saboth dayes.
13. Then sayde he to ye ma: stretch forth thy had. And he stretched it forthe. And it was made whole agayne lyke vnto ye other.
14. Then ye Pharyses wet out and helde a cousell agaynst hym how they myght destroye hym.
15. When Iesus knewe yt he departed thece and moche people folowed him and he healed the all
16. and charged the that they shuld not make him knowe:
17. to fulfyll that which was spoden by Esay ye Prophet which sayeth.
18. Beholde my chylde who I have chosen my beloved in who my soule deliteth. I wyll put my sprete on hym and he shall shewe iudgemet to ye gentyls.
19. He shall not stryve he shall not crye nether shall eny man heare his voyce in ye streetes
20. a brosed rede shall he not breacke and flaxe that begynneth to burne he shall not queche tyll he sende forth iudgement vnto victory
21. and in hys name shall the gentyls truste.
22. Then was brought to hym one possessed with a devyll which was both blynde and domme: and he healed hym insomoch that he which was blynd and domme both spake and sawe.
23. And all the people were amased and sayde: Ys not this that sonne of David?
24. But when the Pharises hearde that they sayde: This felow dryveth ye devyls no nother wyse oute but by the helpe of Belzebub ye chefe of the devyls.
25. But Iesus knewe their thoughtes and sayde to the. Every kingdome devided wt in it sylfe shalbe brought to naught. Nether shall eny cite or housholde devyded agest it sylfe cotynue.
26. So if sata cast out sata the is he devyded agenst him sylfe. How shall then his kyngdome endure?
27. Also if I by ye helpe of Belzebub cast oute devyls: by whose helpe do youre chyldren cast them out? Therfore they shalbe youre iudges.
28. But if I cast out the devyls by the sprite of God: then is the kyngdome of god come on you?
29. Ether how can a ma enter into a stroge manes housse and violently take awaye his goodes: excepte he fyrst binde ye stroge man and the spoyle his housse?
30. He that is not wt me is agaynst me. And he yt gaddereth not wt me scattereth abrode.
31. Wherfore I say vnto you all maner of synne and blasphemy shalbe forgeven vnto men: but the blasphemy of ye sprite shall not be forgeven vnto men.
32. And whoso ever speaketh a worde agaynst the sonne of man it shalbe forgeven him. But whosoever speaketh agaynst the holy goost it shall not be forgeven hym: no nether in this worlde nether in the worlde to come.
33. Ether make ye tree good and his frute good also: or els make ye tree evyll and his frute evyll also. For ye tree is knowe by his frute.
34. O generacio of viperes how can ye saye well whe ye youre selves are evyll? For of ye aboundace of the hert ye mouthe speaketh.
35. A good ma oute of ye good treasure of his hert bringeth forth good thynges. And an evyll man out of his evyll treasure bringeth forth evyll thinges.
36. But I say vnto you that of every ydell worde that men shall have spoken: they shall geve acountes at the daye of iudgement.
37. For by thy wordes thou shalt be iustifyed: and by thy wordes thou shalt be condemned.
38. Then answered certeyne of the scribes and of the Pharises sayinge: Master we wolde fayne se a sygne of ye.
39. He answered and sayde to the: The evyll and advoutrous generacio seketh a signe but ther shall no signe be geve to the saue the signe of the Prophete Ionas.
40. For as Ionas was thre dayes and thre nyghtes in the whales belly: soo shall ye sonne of man be thre dayes and thre nyghtes in ye hert of ye erth.
41. The men of Ninivie shall rise at the daye of iugdement with this nacion and condemne them: for they amended at ye preachinge of Ionas. And beholde a greater then Ionas is here.
42. The quene of ye south shall ryse at ye daye of iudgement with this generacion and shall condemne the: for she came fro the vtmost parties of the worlde to heare the wysdome of Salomon. And beholde a greater then Salomo is here.
43. When the vnclene sprite is gone out of a man he walketh throughout dry places seking reest and fyndeth none.
44. Then he sayeth: I will retourne ageyne into my housse fro whece I came oute. And when he is come he fyndeth the housse empty and swepte and garnisshed.
45. Then he goeth his waye and taketh vnto him seven other spretes worsse then himsilfe and so entre they in and dwell there. And the ende of that man is worsse then the beginning. Even so shall it be with this evell nacion.
46. Whill he yet talked to the people: beholde his mother and his brethren stode without desyringe to speake with him.
47. Then one sayde vnto hym: beholde thy mother and thy brethre stonde without desiringe to speke wt the.
48. He answered and sayd to him that tolde hym: Who is my mother? or who are my brethren?
49. And he stretched forth his hond over his disciples and sayd: behold my mother and my brethren.
50. For whosoever dothe my fathers will which is in heve the same is my brother suster and mother.

== Matthew 13 ==
1. The same daye wet Iesus out of ye house and sat by the seesyde
2. and moch people resorted vnto him so gretly yt he wet and sat in a shippe and all the people stode on ye shoore.
3. And he spake many thynges to the in similitudes sayinge: Beholde ye sower wet forth to sowe.
4. And as he sowed some fell by ye wayessyde and the fowlles came and devoured it vp.
5. Some fell apo stony groude where it had not moche erth and a none it sproge vp because it had no depth of erth:
6. and when ye sunne was vp it cauht heet and for lake of rotynge wyddred awaye.
7. Some fell amoge thornes and the thornes sproge vp and chooked it.
8. Parte fell in good groud and brought forth good frute: some an hudred fold some sixtie fold some thyrty folde.
9. Whosoever hath eares to heare let him heare.
10. And the disciples came and sayde to him: Why speakest thou to the in parables?
11. He answered and sayde vnto them: it is geve vnto you to knowe ye secretes of the kyngdome of heve but to the it is not geve.
12. For whosoever hath to him shall be geven: and he shall have aboundance. But whosoever hath not: fro hym shalbe takyn awaye even that he hath.
13. Therfore speake I to them in similitudes: for though they se they se not: and hearinge they heare not: nether vnderstonde.
14. And in the is fulfilled ye Prophesie of Esayas which prophesie sayth: with the eares ye shall heare and shall not vnderstonde and with the eyes ye shall se and shall not perceave.
15. For this peoples hertes are wexed grosse and their eares were dull of herynge and their eyes have they closed lest they shulde se with their eyes and heare with their eares and shuld vnderstonde with their hertes and shuld tourne that I myght heale them.
16. But blessed are youre eyes for they se: and youre eares for they heare.
17. Verely I say vnto you that many Prophetes and perfaicte me have desired to se tho thinges which ye se and have not sene the: and to heare tho thinges which ye heare and have not herde the.
18. Heare ye therfore ye similitude of the sower.
19. Whosoever heareth the worde of ye kingdome and vnderstondeth it not ther cometh the evyll ma and catcheth awaye yt which was sowne in his hert. And this is he which was sowne by the wayesyde.
20. But he yt was sowne in ye stony groude is he which heareth the worde of God and anone wt ioye receaveth it
21. yet hath he no rottes in him selfe and therfore dureth but a season: for assone as tribulacion or persecucion aryseth because of the worde by and by he falleth.
22. He yt was sowne amoge thornes is he yt heareth ye worde of God: but the care of this worlde and the dissaytfulnes of ryches choke ye worde and so is he made vnfrutfull.
23. He which is sowne in ye good grounde is he yt heareth ye worde and vnderstodeth it which also bereth frute and bringeth forth some an.C. folde some sixtie folde and some.xxx. folde.
24. Another similitude put he forth vnto the sayinge: The kyngdome of heve is lyke vnto a man which sowed good seed in his felde.
25. But whyll men slepte ther came his foo and sowed tares amoge ye wheate and wet his waye.
26. When ye blade was sproge vp and had brought forth frute the appered ye tares also.
27. The servauntes came to the housholder and sayde vnto him: Syr sowedest not thou good seed in thy closse fro whece the hath it tares?
28. He sayde to the the envious ma hath done this. Then ye servauntes sayde vnto him: wilt thou then yt we go and gader them?
29. But he sayde nay lest whill ye go aboute to wede out ye tares ye plucke vppe also wt them ye wheate by ye rottes:
30. let bothe growe to gether tyll harvest come and in tyme of harvest I wyll saye to the repers gather ye fyrst ye tares and bind the in sheves to be bret: but gather the wheete into my barne.
31. Another parable he put forthe vnto the sayinge. The kyngdome of heve is lyke vnto a grayne of mustard seed which a ma taketh and soweth in his felde
32. which is ye leest of all seedes. But when it is groune it is the greatest amoge yerbes and it is a tree: so yt the bryddes of the ayer come and bylde in the brauches of it.
33. Another similitude sayde he to them. The kyngdome of heven is lyke vnto leve which a woman taketh and hydeth in.iii. peckes of meele tyll all be levended.
34. All these thynge spake Iesus vnto the people by similitudes and with oute similitudes spake he nothinge to them
35. to fulfyll that which was spoke by the Prophet sayinge: I wyll ope my mouth in similitudes and wyll speake forth thinges which have bene kepte secrete from the begynninge of the worlde.
36. Then sent Iesus ye people awaye and came to housse. And his disciples came vnto him sayinge: declare vnto vs the similitude of the tares of the felde.
37. Then answered he and sayde to them. He that soweth the good seed is the sonne of man.
38. And ye felde is the worlde. And the chyldre of the kingdome they are ye good seed. And the tares are the chyldren of ye wicked.
39. And the enemye that soweth the is ye devell. The harvest is ye end of the worlde. And the repers be ye angels.
40. For eve as the tares are gaddred and bret in ye fyre: so shall it be in ye ende of this worlde.
41. The sonne of man shall send forth his angels and they shall gather out of his kyngdome all thinges that offende and them which do iniquite
42. and shall cast them into a furnes of fyre. There shalbe waylynge and gnasshing of teth.
43. Then shall the iuste men shyne as bryght as the sunne in ye kyngdome of their father. Whosoever hath eares to heare let him heare.
44. Agayne ye kyngdome of heve is lyke vnto treasure hidde in the felde ye which a man fyndeth and hideth: and for ioy therof goeth and selleth all that he hath and byeth that felde.
45. Agayne ye kyngdome of heve is lyke vnto a marchaunt that seketh good pearles
46. which when he had founde one precious pearle wet and solde all that he had and bought it.
47. Agayne the kyngdome of heve is lyke vnto a neet cast into ye see yt gadereth of all kyndes of fysshes:
48. which whe it is full men drawe to londe and sitte and gadre the good into vessels and cast the bad awaye.
49. So shall it be at the ende of the worlde. The angels shall come oute and sever the bad from the good
50. and shall cast them into a furnes of fyre: there shalbe waylinge and gnasshynge of teth.
51. Iesus sayde vnto them: vnderstonde ye all these thynges? They sayde ye Lorde.
52. The sayde he vnto them: Therfore every scribe which is taught vnto the kyngdome of heve is lyke an housholder which bryngeth forth out of hys treasure thynges bothe new and olde.
53. And it came to passe when Iesus had finisshed these similitudes yt he departed thece
54. and came in to his awne coutre and taught them in their synagoges in so moche yt they were astonyed and sayde: whece cometh all this wysdome and power vnto him?
55. Is not this the carpeters sonne? Is not his mother called Mary? and his brethre be called Iames and Ioses and Simo and Iudas?
56. And are not his susters all here wt vs? Whece hath he all these thynge.
57. And they were offended by him. The Iesus sayd to the a Prophet is not wt out honoure save in hys awne countre and amoge his awne kynne.
58. And he dyd not many miracles there for there vnbelefes sake.

== Matthew 14 ==
1. At that tyme Herod the tetrarcha hearde of the fame of Iesu
2. and sayde vnto his servautes: This is Ihon ye baptist. He is risen agayne from deeth and therfore are soche myracles wrought by him.
3. For Herod had taken Ihon and bounde him and put him in preson for Herodias sake his brother Philips wyfe.
4. For Ihon sayde vnto him: Yt is not lawfull for the to have her.
5. And when he wold have put him to deeth he feared the people because they counted him as a prophet.
6. But when Herodes birth daye was come the doughter of Herodias daunsed before them and pleased Herod.
7. Wherfore he promised wt an oth that he wolde geve hir whatsoever she wolde axe.
8. And she beinge informed of her mother before sayde: geve me here Ihon baptistes heed in a platter.
9. And ye kynge sorowed. Neverthelesse for his othes sake and for their sakis which sate also at ye table he comaunded yt to be geven hir:
10. and sent and beheeded Ihon in the preson
11. and his heed was brought in a platter and geven to the damsell and she brought it to her mother.
12. And his disciples came and toke vp his body and buryed it: and went and tolde Iesus.
13. When Iesus hearde that he departed thence by shippe in to a desert place out of ye waye. And when the people had hearde therof they folowed him afote out of their cities.
14. And Iesus went forth and sawe moche people and his herte did melte vpon them and he healed of them those that were sicke.
15. When even was come his disciples came to him sayinge. This is a deserte place and the daye is spent: let the people departe yt they maye go into ye tounes and bye them vytayllis.
16. But Iesus sayde vnto them. They have no neade to go awaye. Geve ye the to eate.
17. Then sayde they vnto him: we have here but.v. loves and two fysshes.
18. And he sayde: bringe the hyther to me.
19. And he comaunded ye people to syt downe on ye grasse: and toke ye.v. loves and the.ii. fysshes and loked vp to heven and blessed and brake and gave the loves to his disciples and the disciples gave them to ye people.
20. And they dyd all eate and were suffised. And they gadered vp of ye gobbetes that remayned vii. basketes full.
21. And they yt ate werein nobre about.v.M. men besyde wemen and chyldren.
22. And strayght waye Iesus made his disciples enter into a shippe and to goo over before him whill he sent ye people awaye.
23. And assone as he had sent the people awaye he went vp into a moutayne alone to praye. And when nyght was come he was there himsilf alone.
24. And the shippe was now in the middes of the see and was toost with waves for it was a cotrary wynde.
25. In the fourthe watche of ye night Iesus came vnto them walkynge on the see.
26. And when his disciples sawe him walkynge on the see they were troubled sayinge: it is some spirite and cryed out for feare.
27. And streyght waye Iesus spake vnto them sayinge: be of god cheare it is I be not afrayed.
28. Peter answered him and sayde: master if thou be he bid me come vnto the on the water.
29. And he sayde come. And when Peter was come doune out of ye shippe he walked on ye water to go to Iesus.
30. But when he sawe a myghty wynde he was afrayed. And as he beganne to synke he cryed sayinge: master save me.
31. And immediatly Iesus stretched forth his hode and caught him and sayde to him: O thou of lytell faith wherfore diddest thou dout?
32. And assone as they were come in to ye shippe ye wynde ceassed.
33. Then they that were in the shippe came and worshipped him sayinge: of a truth thou arte ye sonne of God.
34. And when they were come over they went in to ye londe of Genazareth.
35. And when ye men of yt place had knowledge of him they sent out in to all yt countre rounde about and brought vnto him all that were sicke
36. and besought him that they myght touche the hemme of his vesture only. And as many as touched it were made safe.

== Matthew 15 ==
1. Then came to Iesus scribes and pharises from Ierusalem sayinge:
2. why do thy disciples transgresse the tradicios of ye elders? for they wesshe not their hondes when they eate breed.
3. He answered and sayde vnto them: why do ye also transgresse ye comaundment of God thorowe youre tradicions?
4. For God comaunded sayinge: honoure thy father and mother and he that cursseth father or mother shall suffer deeth.
5. But ye saye every ma shall saye to his father or mother: That which thou desyrest of me to helpe ye with: is geven God:
6. and so shall he not honoure his father or his mother. And thus haue ye made yt the comaundment of God is with out effecte through youre tradicios.
7. Ypocrites well prophesyed of you Esay sayinge:
8. This people draweth nye vnto me with their mouthes and honoureth me with their lippes howbe it their hertes are farre from me:
9. but in vayne they worshippe me teachinge doctrines whiche are nothing but mens precepts.
10. And he called the people vnto him and sayde to them: heare and vnderstande.
11. That which goeth into the mouth defyleth not ye man: but that which commeth out of the mouth defyleth the man.
12. Then came his disciples and sayde vnto him. Perceavest thou not how that the pharises are offended in hearinge thys sayinge?
13. He answered and sayde: all plantes which my hevely father hath not planted shalbe plucked vp by the rotes.
14. Let them alone they be the blynde leaders of the blynde. If the blynde leede the blynde boothe shall fall into the dyche.
15. Then answered Peter and sayd to him: declare vnto vs this parable.
16. Then sayde Iesus: are ye yet with oute vnderstondinge?
17. perceave ye not that what soever goeth in at the mouth descendeth doune in to the bely and is cast out into the draught?
18. But those thingis which procede out of the mouth come from the herte and they defyle the man.
19. For out of the herte come evyll thoughtis murder breakyng of wedlocke whordo theefte falce witnes berynge blasphemye.
20. These are the thingis which defyle a man. But to eate with vnwesshen hondes defyleth not a man.
21. And Iesus went thence and departed in to the costis of Tyre and Sidon.
22. And beholde a woman which was a Cananite came out of ye same coostis and cryed vnto him sayinge: have mercy on me Lorde the sonne of David my doughter is pytiously vexed with a devyll.
23. And he gave her never a worde to answer. Then came to him his disciples and besought him sayinge: sende her awaye for she foloweth vs cryinge.
24. He answered and sayde: I am not sent but vnto ye loost shepe of ye housse of Israel.
25. Then she came and worshipped him sayinge: master helpe me.
26. He answered and sayde: it is not good to take the chyldrens breed and to cast it to whelpes.
27. She answered and sayde: truthe Lorde: neverthelesse the whelpes eate of the cromes which fall from their masters table.
28. Then Iesus answered and sayde vnto her. O woman greate is thy faith be it to the even as thou desyrest. And her doughter was made whole even at that same houre.
29. Then Iesus went awaye from thence and came nye vnto the see of Galile and went vp in to a mountayne and sat doune there.
30. And moche people came vnto him havinge with the halt blynde domme maymed and other many: and cast them doune at Iesus fete. And he healed them
31. in so moche that the people wondred to se the dome speake the maymed whole the halt to go and ye blynde to se. And they glorified the God of Israel.
32. Then Iesus called his disciples to him and sayde: I have compassion on ye people becau se they have cotynued with me now.iii. dayes and have nought to eate: and I wyll not let them departe fastinge leste they perisshe in ye waye.
33. And his disciples sayd vnto him: whece shuld we get so moche breed in ye wildernes as shuld suffise so greate a multitude?
34. And Iesus sayde vnto them: how many loves have ye? And they sayde: seven and a feawe litle fysshes.
35. And he comaunded ye people to syt doune on ye grounde:
36. and toke the seven loves and the fysshes and gave thankes and brake them and gave to his disciples and the disciples gave them to the people.
37. And they dyd all eate and were suffised. And they toke vp of the broke meate that was lefte.vii. basketes full.
38. And yet they that ate were.iiii.M. men besyde wemen and chyldren.
39. And he sent awaye the people and toke shippe and came into the parties of Magdala.

== Matthew 16 ==
1. Then came the pharises and saduces and did tempte him desyringe him to shewe them some signe from heve.
2. He answered and sayde vnto the. At even ye saye we shall have fayre wedder and yt because ye skye is reed:
3. and in the morninge ye saye to daye shalbe foule wedder and that because the skye is cloudy and reed. O ye ypocrites ye can discerne ye fassion of the skye: and can ye not discerne ye signes of the tymes?
4. The frowarde nacion and advoutrous seketh a signe and there shall non other signe be geven vnto them but the signe of the prophet Ionas. So lefte he them and departed.
5. And when his disciples were come to the other side of the water they had forgotte to take breed with the.
6. Then Iesus sayd vnto them: Take hede and beware of the leve of ye Pharises and of ye Saduces.
7. And they thought in them selves sayinge: because we have brought no breed with vs.
8. When Iesus vnderstode that he sayd vnto the. O ye of lytell faith why are youre mindes cumbred because ye have brought no breed?
9. Do ye not yet perceave nether remeber those.v. loves when there were.v.M. men and how many baskettes toke ye vp?
10. Nether the.vii. loves when there were.iiiii.M. and how many baskettes toke ye vp?
11. Why perceave ye not then yt I spake not vnto you of breed whe I sayde beware of the leven of the Pharises and of the Saduces?
12. The vnderstode they how that he bad not them beware of the leven of breed: but of the doctrine of the Pharises and of the Saduces.
13. When Iesus cam in to the costes of the cite which is called Cesarea Philippi he axed his disciples sayinge: whom do men saye yt I the sonne of ma am?
14. They saide some saye yt thou arte Ihon Baptist some Helias some Ieremias or one of ye prophetes.
15. He sayde vnto the: but who saye ye yt I am?
16. Simo Peter answered and sayde: Thou arte Christ ye sonne of the lyvinge God.
17. And Iesus answered and sayde to him: happy arte thou Simon the sonne of Ionas for fleshe and bloud hath not opened vnto the yt but my father which is in heve.
18. And I saye also vnto the yt thou arte Peter: and apon this rocke I wyll bylde my congregacion. And the gates of hell shall not prevayle ageynst it.
19. And I wyll geve vnto the the keyes of the kyngdom of heven: and whatsoever thou byndest vpon erth shall be bounde in heven: and whatsoever thou lowsest on erthe shalbe lowsed in heven.
20. Then he charged his disciples yt they shulde tell no man yt he was Iesus Christ.
21. From yt tyme forth Iesus began to shewe vnto his disciples how yt he must go vnto Ierusalem and suffer many thinges of ye Elders and of ye hye prestes and of the scribes and must be killed and ryse agayne ye thirde daye.
22. But Peter toke him asyde and began to rebuke him sayinge: master faver thy sylfe this shall not come vnto the.
23. Then tourned he aboute and sayde vnto Peter: come after me Satan thou offendest me because thou sauourest not godly thinges but wordly thinges
24. Iesus then sayde to his disciples. If eny man wyll folowe me leet him forsake him sylfe and take vp his crosse and folowe me.
25. For who soever wyll save his lyfe shall loose it. And whosoever shall loose his lyfe for my sake shall fynde it.
26. What shall it proffet a man though he shulde wynne all the whoole worlde: yf he loose his owne soule? Or els what shall a man geve to redeme his soule agayne with all?
27. For the sonne of man shall come in the glory of his father wt his angels: and then shall he rewarde every man accordinge to his dedes.
28. Verely I saye vnto you some ther be amonge them that here stonde which shall not taste of deeth tyll they shall have sene the sonne of man come in his kyngdomen.

== Matthew 17 ==
1. And after. vi. dayes Iesus toke Peter and Iames and Ihon his brother and brought them vp into an hye mountayne out of the waye
2. and was transfygured before them: and his face did shyne as the sunne and his clothes were as whyte as the light.
3. And beholde ther appered vnto the Moses and Helyas talkinge with him.
4. Then answered Peter and sayde to Iesus: master here is good beinge for vs. If thou wylt leet vs make here.iii. tabernacles one for the and one for Moses and one for Helyas.
5. Whyll he yet spake beholde a bright cloude shadowed them. And beholde there came a voyce out of ye cloude sayinge: this is my deare sonne in whom I delite heare him.
6. And when the disciples hearde that they fell on their faces and were soore afrayed.
7. And Iesus came and touched them and sayde: aryse and be not afrayed.
8. And when they looked vp they saw no man saue Iesus onely.
9. And as they came doune from the mountayne Iesus charged them sayinge: se yt ye shewe the vision to no man vntyll the sonne of man be rysen ageyne from deeth.
10. And his disciples axed of him sayinge: Why then saye the scribes yt Helyas muste fyrst come?
11. Iesus answered and sayd vnto them: Helyas shall fyrst come and restore all thinges.
12. And I saye vnto you yt Helyas is come alredy and they knewe him not: but have done vnto him whatsoever they lusted. In lyke wyse shall also the sonne of man suffre of the.
13. Then ye disciples perceaved that he spake vnto them of Ihon baptist.
14. And when they were come to ye people ther cam to him a certayne man and kneled doune to him and sayde:
15. Master have mercy on my sonne for he is franticke: and is sore vexed. And oft tymes he falleth into the fyre and oft into ye water
16. And I brought him to thy disciples and they coulde not heale him.
17. Iesus answered and sayde: O generacion faythles and croked: how longe shall I be with you? how longe shall I suffre you? bring him hidder to me.
18. And Iesus rebuked the devyll and he ca out of him. And ye child was healed even yt same houre.
19. Then came the disciples to Iesus secretly and sayde: Why could not we cast him out?
20. Iesus sayd vnto the: Because of youre vnbelefe For I saye veryly vnto you: yf ye had faythe as a grayne of musterd seed ye shuld saye vnto this moutayne remove hence to yonder place and he shuld remove: nether shuld eny thinge be vnpossible for you to do.
21. How be it this kynde goeth not oute but by prayer and fastinge.
22. As they passed the tyme in Galile Iesus sayde vnto them: the sonne of man shalbe betrayed into the hondes of men
23. and they shall kill him and the thyrd daye he shall ryse agayne. And they sorowed greatly.
24. And when they were come to Capernau they yt were wont to gadre poll money came to Peter and sayde: Doth youre master paye tribute?
25. He sayd: ye. And when he was come into the house Iesus spake fyrst to him saying What thinkest thou Simon? of whome do ye kynges of the erth take tribute or poll money? of their chyldren or of straungers?
26. Peter sayde vnto him: of straungers. Then sayd Iesus vnto him agayne: Then are the chyldren fre.
27. Neverthelesse lest we shuld offende the: goo to ye see and cast in thyne angle and take the fysshe yt fyrst cometh vp: and when thou hast opened his mouthe thou shalt fynde a pece of twentie pence: yt take and paye for me and the.

== Matthew 18 ==
1. The same tyme the disciples came vnto Iesus saying: who is ye greatest in the kyngdome of heve?
2. Iesus called a chylde vnto him and set him in the middes of them:
3. and sayd. Verely I say vnto you: except ye tourne and become as chyldren ye cannot enter into the kyngdom of heven.
4. Whosoever therfore humble him sylfe as this chylde the same is the greatest in ye kyngdome of heve.
5. And who soever receaveth suche a chylde in my name receaveth me.
6. But whosoever offende one of these lytelons which beleve in me: it were better for him that a milstone were hanged aboute his necke and that he were drouned in the depth of the see.
7. Wo be vnto the world because of offences. How be it it cannot be avoided but yt offences shalbe geven. Neverthelesse woo be to ye man by who the offence cometh.
8. Wherfore yf thy honde or thy fote offende the cut him of and cast him from the. It ys better for the to enter into lyfe halt or maymed rather then thou shuldest havinge two hondes or two fete be cast into everlasting fyre.
9. And yf also thyne eye offende the plucke him oute and caste him from the. It is better for the to enter into lyfe with one eye then havyng two eyes to be cast into hell fyre.
10. Se that ye despise not one of these litelons. For I saye vnto you yt in heven their angels alwayes behold the face of my father which is in heven.
11. Ye and the sonne of man is come to saue that which is lost.
12. How thinke ye? Yf a man have an hondred shepe and one of them be gone astray dothe he not leve nynty and nyne in ye moutains and go and seke that one which is gone astray?
13. If it happen that he fynd him veryly I say vnto you: he reioyseth more of that shepe then of the nynty and nyne which went not astray.
14. Even so it is not the wyll of youre father in heven that one of these lytelons shulde perishe.
15. Moreover yf thy brother treaspace agenst the. Go and tell him his faute betwene him and the alone. Yf he heare the thou hast wone thy brother:
16. But yf he heare the not then take yet with the one or two that in the mouth of two or thre witnesses all thinges maye be stablisshed.
17. If he heare not them tell it vnto the congregacion. If he heare not ye congregacion take him as an hethen man and as a publican.
18. Verely I say vnto you what soever ye bynde on erth shalbe bounde in heven. And what soever ye lowse on erth shalbe lowsed in heven.
19. Agayn I say vnto you that yf two of you shall agre in erth apon eny maner thynge what soever they shall desyre: it shalbe geven them of my father which is in heven.
20. For where two or thre are gathered togedder in my name there am I in the myddes of them.
21. Then came Peter to him and sayde: master howe ofte shall I forgeve my brother yf he synne agaynst me seven tymes?
22. Iesus sayd vnto him: I saye not vnto the seven tymes: but seventy tymes seven tymes.
23. Therfore is ye kingdome of heven lykened vnto a certayne kynge which wolde take a countis of his servauntis.
24. And when he had begone to recken one was broughte vnto him whiche ought him ten thousande talentis:
25. whome be cause he had nought to paye his master commaunded him to be solde and his wyfe and his chyldren and all that he had and payment to be made.
26. The servaunt fell doune and besought him sayinge: Sir geve me respyte and I wyll paye it every whit.
27. Then had the Lorde pytie on that servaunt and lowsed him and forgave him the det.
28. And ye sayde servaut wet oute and founde one of his felowes which ought him an hundred pence and leyed hondes on him and toke him by the throote sayinge: paye me yt thou owest.
29. And his felowe fell doune and besought him sayinge: have pacience with me and I wyll paye the all.
30. And he wolde not but went and cast him into preson tyll he shulde paye the det.
31. When his other felowes sawe what was done they were very sory and came and tolde vnto their lorde all yt had happened.
32. Then his lorde called him and sayde vnto him. O evyll servaut I forgave the all that det because thou prayedst me: was it not mete also yt thou
33. shuldest have had copassion on thy felow even as I had pitie on ye?
34. And his lorde was wrooth and delyuered him to the iaylers tyll he shnld paye all that was due to him.
35. So lyke wyse shall my hevenly father do vnto you except ye forgeve with youre hertes eache one to his brother their treaspases.

== Matthew 19 ==
1. And it came to passe when Iesus had fynisshed those sayinges he gat him from Galile and came into the coostes of Iewry beyonde Iordan
2. and moche people folowed him and he healed them theare.
3. Then came vnto him the pharises temtinge him and sayinge to him: Ys it lawfull for a man to put awaye his wyfe for all maner of causes?
4. He answered and sayd vnto them: Have ye not redde how that he which made man at the beginninge made them man and woman
5. and sayde: for this thinge shall a ma leve father and mother and cleve vnto his wyfe and they twayne shalbe one flesshe.
6. Wherfore now are they not twayne but one flesshe. Let not man therfore put a sunder that which God hath cuppled to gedder.
7. The sayde they to him: why did Moses comaunde to geve a testimoniall of divorsemet and to put hyr awaye?
8. He sayde vnto them: Moses because of the hardnes of youre hertes suffred you to put awaye youre wyfes: But from ye beginnynge it was not so.
9. I saye therfore vnto you whosoever putteth awaye his wyfe (except it be for fornicacion) and maryeth another breaketh wedlocke. And whosoever maryeth her which is divorsed doeth commyt advoutry.
10. Then sayde his disciples to him: yf the mater be so betwene man and wyfe then is it not good to mary.
11. He sayde vnto them: all me can not awaye with that sayinge save they to whom it is geve.
12. Ther are chaste which were so borne out of their mothers belly. And ther are chaste which be made of men. And ther be chaste which have made them selves chaste for the kyngdome of heves sake. He that can take it let him take it.
13. Then were brought to him yonge chyldre that he shuld put his hondes on them and praye And the disciples rebuked them.
14. But Iesus sayde: suffre the chyldren and forbid them not to come to me: for of suche is the kyngdome of heven.
15. And when he had put his hondes on them he departed thence.
16. And beholde one came and sayde vnto him: good master what good thinge shall I do that I maye have eternall lyfe?
17. He sayde vnto him: why callest thou me good? there is none good but one and that is God. But yf thou wylt entre in to lyfe kepe the commaundementes.
18. The other sayde to him Which? And Iesus sayde: breake no wedloke kill not steale not: beare not falce witnes:
19. honoure father and mother: and love thyne neighbour as thy sylfe.
20. And the younge man sayde vnto him: I have observed all these thingis from my youth what lacke I yet?
21. And Iesus sayde vnto him yf thou wylt be perfecte goo and sell that thou hast and geve it to the povre and thou shalt have treasure in heven and come and folowe me.
22. When ye younge ma hearde yt sayinge he wet awaye mourninge. For he had greate possessions.
23. Then Iesus sayde vnto his disciples: Verely I saye vnto you: yt is harde for a ryche ma to enter into ye kyngdome of heaven.
24. And moreover I saye vnto you: it is easier for a camell to go through the eye of a nedle then for a ryche man to enter into the kyngdome of God.
25. When his disciples hearde that they were excedingly amased sayinge: who then can be saved?
26. Iesus behelde the and sayde vnto them: with men this is vnpossible but with God all thinges are possible.
27. Then answered Peter and sayde to him: Beholde we have forsaken all and folowed the what shall we have?
28. Iesus sayde vnto them: verely I saye to you: when the sonne of man shall syt in ye seate of his maieste ye which folowe me in ye seconde generacion shall syt also vpon.xii. seates and iudge ye.xii. tribes of Israel.
29. And whosoever forsaketh housses or brethren or systers other father or mother or wyfe or chyldren or landes for my names sake ye same shall receave an hundred folde and shall inheret everlastynge lyfe.
30. Many that are fyrste shalbe laste and the laste shalbe fyrste.

== Matthew 20 ==
1. For the kyngdome of heven ys lyke vnto an houssholder which went out erly in the morninge to hyre labourers into hys vyneyarde.
2. And he agreed wt the labourers for a peny a daye and sent them into his vyneyarde.
3. And he went out about the thyrde houre and sawe other stonding ydell in the marketplace
4. and sayd vnto them go ye also into my vyneyarde: and whatsoever is right I will geve you. And they went there waye.
5. Agayne he wet out about the sixte and nynthe houre and dyd lyke wyse.
6. And he went out aboute the eleventhe houre and founde other stondynge ydell and sayde vnto them: Why stonde ye here all the daye ydell?
7. They sayde vnto hym: because no man hath hyred vs. He sayde to them: goo ye alsoo into my vyneyarde and whatsoever is right that shall ye receave.
8. When even was come the lorde of the vyneyarde sayde vnto hys steward: call the labourers and geve them their hyre beginnyng at ye laste tyll thou come to ye fyrste.
9. And they whiche were hyred aboute the eleventhe houre came and receaved every man a peny.
10. Then came ye fyrst supposyng yt they shuld receave moare: and they likewyse receaved every man a peny.
11. And when they had receaved it they murmured agaynst the good man of the housse
12. saying: These laste have wrought but one houre and thou hast made them equall vnto vs which have born ye burthe and heet of the daye.
13. He answered to one of the sayinge: frende I do the no wronge: dyddest thou not agre wt me for a peny?
14. Take that which is thy duty and go thy waye. I will geve vnto this last as moche as to the.
15. Ys it not lawfull for me to do as me listeth with myne awne? Ys thyne eye evyll because I am good?
16. Soo the laste shalbe fyrste and the fyrste shalbe laste. For many are called and feawe be chosen.
17. And Iesus ascended to Ierusalem and toke the.xii. disciples a parte in the waye and sayde to the.
18. Beholde we goo vp to Ierusalem and the sonne of ma shalbe betrayed vnto ye chefe prestes and vnto the scribes and they shall condene him to deeth
19. and shall delyvre him to the getils to be mocked to be scourged and to be crucified: and ye thyrd daye he shall ryse agayne.
20. Then came to hym the mother of zebedes chyldren with her sonnes worshippynge him and desyringe a certayne thinge of him.
21. And he sayd vnto her: what wilt thou have? She sayde vnto him: Gravnte that these my two sonnes may sit ye one on thy right hond and the other on ye lifte hond in thy kyngdome.
22. Iesus answered and sayd: Ye wot not what ye axe. Are ye able to drynke of the cuppe yt I shall drynke of and to be baptised wt the baptyme that I shalbe baptised with? They answered to him that we are.
23. And he sayd vnto the: Ye shall drinke of my cvp and shalbe baptised with the baptyme that I shalbe baptised with. But to syt on my ryght hond and on my lyst hond is not myne to geve: but to them for whom it is prepared of my father.
24. And when the ten hearde this they disdayned at ye two brethre:
25. But Iesus called them vnto him and sayde: Ye knowe yt the lordes of the gentyls have dominacio over them. And they that are great exercise power over the.
26. It shall not be so amoge you. But whosoever wyll be greate amoge you let him be youre minister:
27. and whosoever wil be chefe let him be youre servaut
28. eve as the sonne of man came not to be ministred vnto but to minister and to geve his lyfe for the redempcion of many.
29. And as they departed fro Hierico moche people folowed him.
30. And beholde two blinde men sittinge by ye waysyde whe they hearde Iesus passe by cryed sayinge: Thou Lorde ye sonne of David have mercy on vs.
31. And ye people rebuked them be cause they shulde holde their peace. But they cryed ye moare sayinge: have mercy on vs thou Lorde which arte ye sonne of David.
32. Then Iesus stode styll and called the and sayde: what will ye that I shulde do to you:
33. They sayd to him: Lorde that oure eyes maye be opened.
34. Iesus had copassion on the and touched their eyes. And immediatly their eyes receaved syght. And they folowed him.

== Matthew 21 ==
1. When they drewe neye vnto Ierusalem and were come to Betphage vnto mounte olivete: then sent Iesus two of his disciples
2. saiynge to the. Go in to the toune that lyeth over agaynste you and anone ye shall fynde an asse bounde and her colte with her: lose them and bringe them vnto me.
3. And if eny man saye ought vnto you saye ye yt the lorde hath neade of them: and streyght waye he will let them go.
4. All this was done to fulfyll that which was spoken by the Prophet sayinge:
5. Tell ye the doughter of Sion: beholde thy kynge cometh vnto the meke and sittinge vpon an asse and a colte the fole of an asse vsed to the yooke.
6. The disciples went and dyd as Iesus comaunded them
7. and brought ye asse and the colte and put on them their clothes and set him theron.
8. And many of the people spreed their garmentes in ye waye. Other cut doune braunches fro the trees and strawed them in the waye.
9. Moreover the people that went before and they also that came after cryed sayinge: Hosanna to ye sonne of David. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lorde Hosanna in the hyest.
10. And when he was come in to Ierusalem all the cyte was moved sayinge: who is this?
11. And the people sayde: this is Iesus the Prophet of Nazareth a cyte of Galile.
12. And Iesus went in to the temple of God and cast out all them that soulde and bought in the temple and overthrew the tables of the mony chaugers and the seates of them that solde doves
13. and sayde to them: It is wrytten my housse shalbe called the housse of prayer. But ye have made it a denne of theves.
14. And the blinde and the halt came to him in ye teple and he healed the.
15. When the chefe prestes and scribes sawe the marveylles that he dyd and the chyldren cryinge in the teple and sayinge Hosanna to the sonne of David they disdayned
16. and sayde vnto him: hearest thou what these saye? Iesus sayde vnto them yee: have ye never redde of the mouth of babes and suckelinges thou haste ordeyned prayse?
17. And he lefte the and wet out of ye cite vnto Bethanie and had his abydige there.
18. In the mornynge as he returned in to the cyte ageyne he hungred
19. and spyed a fygge trre in the waye and came to it and founde nothinge theron but leves only and sayd to it never frute growe on the hence forwardes. And ano the fygge tree wyddered awaye.
20. And when his disciples sawe that they marveled sayinge: Howe sone is the fygge tree wyddered awaye?
21. Iesus answered and sayde vnto the: Verely I saye vnto you yf ye shall have faith and shall not dout ye shall not only do that which I have done to the fygge tree: but also yf ye shall saye vnto this moutayne take thy silfe awaye and cast thy silfe into the see it shalbe done.
22. And whatsoever ye shall axe in prayer (if ye beleve) ye shall receave it.
23. And when he was come into the teple the chefe prestes and the elders of the people came vnto him as he was teachinge and sayde: by what auctorite doest thou these thinges? and who gave the this power?
24. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: I also will axe of you a certayne question which if ye assoyle me I in lyke wyse wyll tell you by what auctorite I do these thinges.
25. The baptime of Iohn: whence was it? fro heve or of men? Then they reasoned amoge them selves sayinge: yf we shall saye fro heven he will saye vnto vs: why dyd ye not then beleve hym?
26. But and if we shall saye of men then feare we the people. For all men helde Iohn as a Prophet.
27. And they answered Iesus and sayde: we cannot tell. And he lyke wyse sayd vnto them: nether tell I you by what auctorite I do these thinges.
28. What saye ye to this? A certayne man had two sonnes and came to ye elder and sayde: sonne go and worke to daye in my vineyarde.
29. He answered and sayde I will not: but afterwarde repented and went.
30. Then came he to the second and sayde lyke wyse. And he answered and sayde: I will syr: yet wet not.
31. Whether of the twayne dyd the will of the father? And they sayde vnto hym: the fyrst. Iesus sayde vnto the: verely I saye vnto you that the publicans and the harlotes shall come into ye kyngdome of God before you.
32. For Iohn came vnto you in the waye of rightewesnes and ye beleved hym not. But the publicans and the harlotes beleved him. And yet ye (though ye sawe it) were not yet moved with repentaunce that ye myght afterwarde have beleved hym.
33. Herken another similitude. Ther was a certayne housholder which planted a vineyarde and hedged it roude about and made a wynpresse in it and bilt a tower and let it out to husbandmen and wet in to a straunge coutre.
34. And when the tyme of the frute drewe neare he sent his servauntes to the husbandmen to receave the frutes of it.
35. And ye husbandme caught his servauntes and bet one kylled another and stoned another.
36. Agayne he sent other servantes moo then the fyrst: and they served them lyke wyse.
37. But last of all he sent vnto the his awne sonne sayinge: they will feare my sonne.
38. But when the husbandmen sawe the sonne they sayde amoge the selves: This is the heyre: come let vs kyll him and let vs take his inheritaunce to oure selves.
39. And they caught him and thrust him out of the vineyarde and slewe him.
40. When the lorde of the vyneyarde commeth what will he do wt those husbandme?
41. They sayde vnto him: he will cruellye destroye those evyll persons and wyll let out his vyneyarde vnto other husbandmen which shall delyver him the frute at tymes convenient
42. Iesus sayde vnto the: dyd ye never redde in the scriptures? The stone which ye bylders refused ye same is set in ye principall parte of ye corner: this was the lordes doinge and yt is mervelous in oure eyes.
43. Therfore saye I vnto you the kyngdome of God shalbe take from you and shalbe geve to the getyls which shall brynge forth the frutes of it.
44. And whosoever shall fall on this stone he shalbe broken but on whosoever it shall fall vpon it will grynde him to powder.
45. And when the chefe prestes and Pharises hearde these similitudes they perceaved yt he spake of the.
46. And they wet about to laye hondes on him but they feared ye people because they tooke him as a Prophet.

== Matthew 22 ==
1. And Iesus answered and spake vnto them agayne in similitudes sayinge.
2. The kingdome of heve is lyke vnto a certayne kynge which maryed his sonne
3. and sent forth his servantes to call them that were byd to the weddinge and they wolde not come.
4. Ageyne he sent forth other servauntes sayinge: Tell them which are bydden: beholde I have prepared my dynner myne oxen and my fatlinges are kylled and all thinges are redy come vnto the mariage.
5. But they made light of it and went their wayes: one to his ferme place another about his marchaundise
6. the remnaunt toke his seruantes and intreated them vngodly and slewe them.
7. When the kinge hearde that he was wroth and send forth his warryers and distroyed those murtherers and brent vp their cyte.
8. Then sayde he to his servauutes: the weddinge was prepared. But they which were bydden were not worthy.
9. Go ye therfore out into ye hyewayes and as many as ye finde byd them to the mariage.
10. The seruauntes wet out into the hiewayes and gaddered to gedder as many as they coulde fynde both good and bad and ye weddinge was furnysshed with gestes.
11. Then the kynge came in to viset the gestes and spyed there a ma which had not on a weddinge garment
12. and sayde vnto him: frende how fortuned it that thou camest in hither and hast not on a weddyng garment? And he was eve spechlesse.
13. Then sayde the kynge to his ministers: take and bynde hym hand and fote and caste hym into vtter darcknes there shalbe wepinge and gnasshinge of teth.
14. For many are called and feawe be chosen.
15. Then wet the Pharises and toke counsell how they might tagle him in his wordes.
16. And they sent vnto him their disciples with Herodes servauntes sayinge: Master we knowe yt thou are true and teachest the waye of god trulie nether carest for eny man for thou consydrest not menes estate.
17. Tell vs therfore: how thynkest thou? Is it lawfull to geve tribute vnto Cesar or not?
18. Iesus perceaved their wikednes and sayde: Why tempte ye me ye ypocrites?
19. Let me se ye tribute money. And they toke hym a peny.
20. And he sayde vnto them: whose is this ymage and superscripcion?
21. They sayde vnto him: Cesars. Then sayde he vnto them. Geve therfore to Cesar that which is Cesars: and geve vnto god that which is goddes.
22. When they hearde that they marveled and lefte hym and went there waye.
23. The same daye the Saduces came to him (which saye that there is no resurrcecion) and axed him
24. sayinge: Master Moses bade yf a man dye havinge no chyldre that the brother mary his wyfe and reyse vp seed vnto his brother.
25. Ther were wt vs seven brethre and the fyrste maried and deceased wt oute yssue and lefte his wyfe vnto his brother.
26. Lykewise the seconde and ye thryd vnto the sevethe.
27. Laste of all the woman dyed also.
28. Now in the resurreccion whose wyfe shall she be of the seven? For all had her.
29. Iesus answered and sayde vnto the: ye are deceaved and vnderstonde not the scriptures nor yet the power of God.
30. For in the resurreccion they nether mary nor are maryed: but are as the angels of God in heven.
31. As touchynge the resurreccion of the deed: have ye not redde what is sayde vnto you of God which sayeth:
32. I am Abrahams God and Ysaacks God and the God of Iacob? God is not the God of the deed: but of the lyvinge.
33. And when the people hearde that they were astonyed at his doctrine.
34. When the Pharises had hearde how yt he had put the Saduces to silence they drewe to gedder
35. and one of them which was a doctoure of lawe axed a question teptinge h m and sayinge:
36. Master which is ye chefe comaundment in the lawe?
37. Iesus sayde vnto him: love the Lorde thy God wt all thine herte with all thy soule and with all thy mynde.
38. This is the fyrst and the chefe comaundement.
39. And ther is another lyke vnto this. Love thyne neghbour as thy selfe.
40. In these two commaundemetes hange all the lawe and the Prophetes.
41. Whyll the Pharises were gaddered togeder Iesus axed
42. the sayinge: what thinke ye of Christ? Whose sonne is he? They sayde vnto him: the sonne of David.
43. He sayde vnto the: how then doeth David in spirite call him Lorde sayinge?
44. The Lorde sayde to my Lorde syt on my right honde: tyll I make thyne enemyes thy fote stole.
45. Yf David call him Lorde: how is he then his sonne?
46. And none coulde answere him ageyne one worde: nether dueste eny from that daye forth axe him eny moo questions.

== Matthew 23 ==
1. Then spake Iesus to the people and to his disciples
2. sayinge. The Scribes and the Pharises sit in Moses seate.
3. All therfore whatsoever they byd you observe that observe and do: but after their workes do not:
4. For they saye and do not. Ye and they bynde hevy burthes and grevous to be borne and ley the on menes shulders: but they themsylfes will not heave at them with one of their fyngers.
5. All their workes they do for to be sene of me. They set abroade their philateries and make large borders on there garmetes
6. and love to sit vppermooste at feastes and to have the chefe seates in the synagoges
7. and gretinges in the marketes and to be called of men Rabi.
8. But ye shall not suffre youre selves to be called Rabi. For one is youre master that is to wyt Christ and all ye are brethre.
9. And call no man youre father vpon the erth for there is but one youre father and he is in heven.
10. Be not called masters for there is but one youre master and he is Christ.
11. He that is greatest amoge you shalbe youre seruaunte.
12. But whosoever exalteth himsilfe shalbe brought lowe. And he yt hubleth himsilfe shalbe exalted.
13. Wo be vnto you Scribes and Pharises ypocrites for ye shutte vp the kyngdome of heve before men: ye youre selves goo not in nether suffre ye them that come to enter in.
14. Wo be vnto you Scribes and Pharises ypocrites: ye devoure widdowes houses and that vnder a coloure of praying longe prayers: wherfore ye shall receave greater damnacion.
15. Wo be vnto you Scribes and Pharises ypocrites which compasse see and londe to bringe one in to youre belefe: and when he ys brought ye make him two folde more the chylde of hell then ye youre selves are.
16. Wo be vnto you blynd gides which saye whosoever sweare by the teple it is no thinge: but whosoever sweare by the golde of the temple he offendeth.
17. Ye foles and blinde? whether is greater the golde or the teple that sanctifieth ye golde.
18. And whosoever sweareth by the aulter it is nothinge: but whosoever sweareth by ye offeringe yt lyeth on ye aultre offendeth.
19. Ye foles and blinde: whether is greater ye offeringe or ye aultre which sanctifieth ye offeringe?
20. Whosoever therfore sweareth by ye aultre sweareth by it and by all yt there on is.
21. And whosoever sweareth by the teple sweareth by it and by hym yt dwelleth therin.
22. And he that sweareth by heve swereth by the seate of God and by hym that sytteth theron.
23. Wo be to you Scribes and Pharises ypocrites which tythe mynt annyse and comen and leave the waygthtyer mattres of ye lawe vndone: iudgemet mercy and fayth. These ought ye to have done and not to have left the othre vndone.
24. Ye blinde gydes which strayne out a gnat and swalowe a cammyll.
25. Wo be to you scribes and pharises ypocrites which make clene ye vtter syde of the cuppe and of the platter: but within they are full of brybery and excesse.
26. Thou blinde Pharise clense fyrst the outsyde of the cup and platter that the ynneside of them maye be clene also.
27. Wo be to you Scribe and Pharises ypocrite for ye are lyke vnto paynted tombes which appere beautyfull outwarde: but are wt in full of deed bones and of all fylthynes.
28. So are ye for outwarde ye appere righteous vnto me when within ye are full of ypocrisie and iniquite.
29. Wo be vnto you Scribes and Pharises ypocrites: ye bylde the tombes of the Prophetes and garnisshe the sepulchres of the righteous
30. and saye: Yf we had bene in the dayes of oure fathers we wolde not have bene parteners with them in the bloud of the Prophetes.
31. So then ye be witnesses vnto youre selfes that ye are the chyldren of them which killed the prophetes.
32. Fulfill ye lyke wyse the measure of youre fathers.
33. Yee serpentes and generacion of vipers how shuld ye scape ye dapnacio of hell?
34. Wherfore beholde I sende vnto you prophetes wyse men and scribes and of the ye shall kyll and crucifie: and of the ye shall scourge in youre synagoges and persecute from cyte to cyte
35. that vpon you maye come all the righteous bloude that was sheed vpon the erth fro the bloud of righteous Abell vnto ye bloud of zacharias the sonne of Barachias who ye slewe betwene the teple and ye altre.
36. Verely I say vnto you all these thinges shall light vpon this generacion.
37. Hierusalem hierusalem which kyllest prophetes and stonest the which are sent to the: how often wolde I have gadered thy chyldren to gether as the henne gadreth her chickes vnder her winges but ye wolde not:
38. Beholde youre habitacio shalbe lefte vnto you desolate.
39. For I saye to you ye shall not se me heceforthe tyll that ye saye: blessed is he that cometh in the name of ye Lorde.

== Matthew 24 ==
1. And Iesus went out and departed fro the teple: and his disciples came to hym for to shewe him the byldinge of the teple.
2. Iesus sayde vnto the: se ye not all these thinges? Verely I saye vnto you: ther shall not be here lefte one stone vpon another that shall not be cast doune.
3. And as he sat vpon the mout Olivete his disciples came vnto hym secretely sayinge. Tell vs when these thinges shalbe? And what signe shalbe of thy comynge and of the ende of the worlde?
4. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: take hede that no ma deceave you.
5. For many shall come in my name sayinge: I am Christ and shall deceave many.
6. Ye shall heare of warres and of the fame of warres: but se yt ye be not troubled. For all these thinges must come to passe but the ende is not yet.
7. For nacio shall ryse ageynste nacio and realme ageynste realme: and ther shalbe pestilence honger and erthquakes in all quarters.
8. All these are the beginninge of sorowes.
9. Then shall they put you to trouble and shall kyll you: and ye shalbe hated of all nacions for my names sake.
10. And then shall many be offended and shall betraye one another and shall hate one the other.
11. And many falce Prophetes shall aryse and shall deceave many.
12. And because iniquite shall have the vpper hande the love of many shall abate.
13. But he that endureth to the ende the same shalbe safe.
14. And this gladtidingees of the kyngdome shalbe preached in all the worlde for a witnes vnto all nacions: and then shall the ende come.
15. When ye therfore shall se ye abhominacio that betokeneth desolacion spoken of by Daniell the Prophet stonde in ye holy place: let him that redeth it vnderstonde it.
16. Then let them which be in Iury flye into the moutaynes.
17. And let him which is on ye housse toppe not come downe to fet eny thinge out of his housse.
18. Nether let him which is in ye felde returne backe to fetche his clothes.
19. Wo be in those dayes to the that are wt chylde and to the yt geve sucke.
20. But praye yt youre flight be not in ye winter nether on ye saboth daye.
21. For then shalbe greate tribulacio suche as was not fro the beginninge of the worlde to this tyme ner shalbe.
22. Ye and except those dayes shuld be shortened there shuld no fleshe be saved: but for ye chosens sake those dayes shalbe shortened.
23. Then yf eny ma shall saye vnto you: lo here is Christ or there is Christ: beleve it not.
24. For there shall arise false christes and false prophete and shall do great myracles and wondres. In so moche yt if it were possible ye verie electe shuld be deceaved.
25. Take hede I have tolde you before.
26. Wherfore if they shall saye vnto you: beholde he is in ye desert go not forth: beholde he is in ye secret places beleve not.
27. For as ye lightninge cometh out of ye eest and shyneth vnto the weest: so shall the comynge of the sonne of ma be.
28. For wheresoever a deed karkas is eve thyther will the egles resorte.
29. Immediatly after the tribulacios of those dayes shall the sunne be derkened: and ye mone shall not geve hir light and the starre shall fall from heve and the powers of heve shall move.
30. And then shall appere the sygne of the sonne of man in heven. And then shall all the kynreddes of the erth morne and they shall se the sonne of man come in the cloudes of heven with power and greate glorie.
31. And he shall sende his angeles with the greate voyce of a trope and they shall gader to gether his chosen from the fower wyndes and from the one ende of the worlde to the other.
32. Learne, a similitude of the fygge tree: when his braunches are yet tender and his leves sproge ye knowe that sommer is nye.
33. So lyke wyse ye when ye see all these thynges be ye sure that it is neare even at the dores.
34. Verely I saye vnto you that this generacion shall not passe tyll all these be fulfilled.
35. Heven and erth shall perisshe: but my wordes shall abyde.
36. But of that daye and houre knowith no man no not ye angels of heve but my father only.
37. As the tyme of Noe was so lyke wyse shall the cominge of ye sonne of man be.
38. For as in ye dayes before ye floud: they dyd eate and drynke mary and were maried eve vnto ye daye that Noe entred into the shyppe
39. and knewe of nothynge tyll the floude came and toke them all awaye. So shall also the commynge of the sonne of man be.
40. Then two shalbe in the feldes the one shalbe receaved and the other shalbe refused
41. two shalbe gryndinge at ye myll: ye oue shalbe receaved and ye other shalbe refused.
42. Wake therfore because ye knowe not what houre youre master wyll come.
43. Of this be sure that yf the good man of the housse knewe what houre the thefe wolde come: he wolde suerly watche and not suffre his housse to be broke vppe.
44. Therfore be ye also redy for in ye houre ye thinke he wolde not: wyll the sonne of ma come.
45. If there be any faithfull servaut and wyse whome his master hath made ruler over his housholde to geve the meate in season covenient:
46. happy is that servaunt whom his master (when he cometh) shall finde so doinge.
47. Verely I saye vnto you he shall make him ruler over all his goodes.
48. But and yf that evill servaut shall saye in his herte my master wyll defer his comynge
49. and beginne to smyte his felowes ye and to eate and to drinke with the dronke:
50. that servauntes master wyll come in adaye when he loketh not for him and in an houre yt he is not ware of
51. and wyll devyde him and geve him his rewarde with ypocrites. There shalbe wepinge and gnasshinge of tethe.

== Matthew 25 ==
1. Then ye kyngdome of heven shalbe lykened vnto.x. virgins which toke their lampes and wet to mete the brydgrome:
2. fyve of them were folysshe and fyve were wyse.
3. The folysshe toke their lampes but toke none oyle wt the.
4. But ye wyse tooke oyle wt the in their vesselles wt their lampes also.
5. Whill the brydgrome taryed all slombred and slepte.
6. And even at mydnyght there was a crye made: beholde the brydgrome cometh goo out against him.
7. Then all those virgins arose and prepared their lampes.
8. And ye folysshe sayde to ye wyse: geve vs of youre oyle for our lampes goo out?
9. but ye wyse answered sayinge. Not so lest ther be not ynough for vs and you: but goo rather to them yt sell and by for youre selves.
10. And whill they went to bye ye brydgrome came: and they yt were redy went in with him to ye weddinge and the gate was shett vp:
11. Afterwardes came also ye other virgins sayinge: master master open to vs.
12. But he answered and sayde: verely I saye vnto you: I knowe not you.
13. Watche therefore: for ye knowe nether the daye nor yet the houre when the sonne of man shall come.
14. Lykwyse as a certeyne ma redy to take his iorney to a straunge coutre called his servautes and delivered to them his gooddes.
15. And vnto one he gave.v. talentes to another.ii. and to another one: to every man after his abilite and streyght waye departed.
16. Then he that had receaved the fyve talentes went and bestowed them and wanne other fyve talentes.
17. Lykwyse he that receaved.ii. gayned other.ii.
18. But he yt receaved ye one went and digged a pit in the erth and hyd his masters money.
19. After a longe season ye lorde of those servauntes came and rekened with the.
20. Then came he yt had receaved fyve talentes and brought other fyve talentes sayinge: master thou deliveredst vnto one fyve talentes: beholde I have gayned wt the fyve talentes moo.
21. The his master sayde vnto him: well good servaut and faithfull. Thou hast bene faithfull in lytell I will make the ruler over moche: entre in into thy masters ioye.
22. Also he that receaved.ii. talentes came and sayde: master thou deliveredest vnto me.ii. talentes: beholde I have wone.ii. other talentes with them.
23. And his master sayde vnto him well good servaunt and faithfull. Thou hast bene faithfull in lytell I wyll make the ruler over moche: go in into thy masters ioye.
24. Then he which had receaved ye one talent came and sayd: master I considered yt thou wast an harde man which repest where thou sowedst not and gadderest where thou strawedst not
25. and was therfore afrayde and went and hyd thy talent in ye erth: Beholde thou hast thyn awne.
26. His master answered and sayde vnto him: thou evyll servaut and slewthfull thou knewest yt I repe where I sowed not and gaddre where I strawed not:
27. thou oughtest therfore to have had my money to ye chaugers and then at my comynge shulde I have receaved myne awne with vauntage.
28. Take therfore the talent from him and geve it vnto him which hath.x. talentes.
29. For vnto every man that hath shalbe geven and he shall have aboundance: and from him that hath not shalbe taken awaye even that he hath.
30. And cast yt vnprofitable servaunt into vtter dercknes: there shalbe wepynge and gnasshinge of teeth.
31. When the sonne of ma cometh in his glorie and all the holy angels wt him then shall he syt vpon the seate of his glorie
32. and before him shalbe Gaddred all nacions. And he shall seperate the one from a nother as a shepherde deuideth the shepe from the gootes.
33. And he shall set the shepe on his right honde and the gotes on the lyfte.
34. Then shall the kynge saye to them on his right honde: Come ye blessed chyldren of my father inheret ye the kyngdo prepared for you from the beginninge of the worlde.
35. For I was anhongred and ye gave me meate. I thursted and ye gave me drinke. I was herbourlesse and ye lodged me.
36. I was naked and ye clothed me. I was sicke and ye visited me. I was in preson and ye came vnto me.
37. Then shall ye righteous answere him sayinge master whe sawe we ye anhongred and feed the? or a thurst and gave ye drinke?
38. when sawe we ye herbourlesse and lodged the? or naked and clothed the?
39. or when sawe we the sicke or in preson and came vnto the?
40. And ye kynge shall answere and saye vnto them: verely I saye vnto you: in as moche as ye have done it vnto one of ye leest of these my brethren ye have done it to me.
41. Then shall the kynge saye vnto them that shalbe on the lyfte hande: departe from me ye coursed into everlastinge fire which is prepared for the devyll and his angels.
42. For I was an hungred and ye gave me no meate. I thursted and ye gave me no drinke.
43. I was herbourlesse and ye lodged me not. I was naked and ye clothed me not. I was sicke and in preson and ye visited me not.
44. Then shall they also answere him sayinge: master when sawe we the an hungred or a thurst or herbourlesse or naked or sicke or in preson and did not ministre vnto the?
45. Then shall he answere the and saye: Verely I saye vnto you in as moche as ye did it not to one of ye leest of these ye did it not to me.
46. And these shall go into everlastinge payne: And the righteous into lyfe eternall.

== Matthew 26 ==
1. And it came to passe when Iesus had fynisshed all these sayinges he sayd vnto his disciples:
2. Ye knowe that after ii. dayes shalbe ester and the sonne of man shalbe delyvered to be crucified.
3. Then assembled togedder the chefe prestes and the scribes and the elders of the people to the palice of the hye preste called Cayphas
4. and heelde a counsell how they mygt take Iesus by suttelte and kyll him.
5. But they sayd not on the holy daye lest eny vproure aryse amonge the people.
6. When Iesus was in Bethany in the house of Symon the leper
7. ther came vnto him a woman which had an alablaster boxe of precious oyntment and powred it on his heed as he sate at the bourde.
8. When his disciples sawe that they had indignacion sayinge: what neded this wast?
9. This oyntmet myght have bene well solde and geven to the povre.
10. When Iesus vnderstod that he sayde vnto the: why trouble ye the woman? She hath wrought a good worke apon me.
11. For ye shall have povre folcke alwayes with you: but me shall ye not have all wayes.
12. And in yt she casted this oyntment on my bodye she dyd it to burye me wt all.
13. Verely I saye vnto you wheresoever this gospell shalbe preached throughoute all the worlde there shall also this that she hath done be tolde for a memoriall of her.
14. Then one of the twelve called Iudas Iscarioth went vnto the chefe prestes
15. and sayd: what will ye geve me and I will deliver him vnto you? And they apoynted vnto him thirty peces of sylver.
16. And from that tyme he sought oportunite to betraye him.
17. The fyrst daye of swete breed ye disciples cam to Iesus sayinge vnto him: where wylt thou that we prepare for ye to eate ye paschall lambe?
18. And he sayd: Go into the cite vnto soche a man and saye to him: the master sayeth my tyme is at hande I will kepe myne ester at thy housse with my disciples.
19. And the disciples did as Iesus had apoynted them and made redy the esterlambe.
20. When the even was come he sate doune wt the.xii.
21. And as they dyd eate he sayde: Verely I saye vnto you that one of you shall betraye me.
22. And they were excedinge sorowfull and beganne every one of the to saye vnto him: is it I master?
23. He answered and sayde: he yt deppeth his honde wt me in ye disshe the same shall betraye me.
24. The sonne of ma goeth as it is written of him: but wo be to yt ma by whom ye sonne of man shalbe betrayed. It had bene good for that man yf he had never bene borne.
25. Then Iudas wich betrayed him answered and sayde: is it I master? He sayde vnto him: thou hast sayde.
26. As they dyd eate Iesus toke breed and gave thankes brake it and gave it to the disciples and sayde: Take eate this is my body.
27. And he toke the cup and thanked and gave it them sayinge: drinke of it every one.
28. For this is my bloude of the new testament that shalbe shedde for many for the remission of synnes.
29. I saye vnto you: I will not drinke hence forth of this frute of the vyne tree vntyll that daye when I shall drinke it new with you in my fathers kyngdome.
30. And when they had sayde grace they went out into mounte olyvete.
31. Then sayd Iesus vnto them: all ye shall be offended by me this night. For it is wrytten. I will smyte ye shepe herde and the shepe of ye flocke shalbe scattered abroode.
32. But after I am rysen ageyne I will goo before you into Galile.
33. Peter answered and sayde vnto him: though all men shulde be offended by ye yet wolde I never be offended.
34. Iesus sayde vnto him. Verely I saye vnto ye that this same night before the cocke crowe thou shalt denye me thryse.
35. Peter sayde vnto him: Yf I shulde dye with ye yet wolde I not denye ye Lyke wyse also sayde all ye disciples.
36. Then went Iesus with them into a place which is called Gethsemane and sayde vnto the disciples syt ye here whyll I go and praye yonder.
37. And he toke with him Peter and the two sonnes of zebede and began to wexe sorowfull and to be in an agonye.
38. Then sayd Iesus vnto them: my soule is hevy even vnto the deeth. Tary ye here and watche wt me.
39. And he went a lytell aparte and fell flat on his face and prayed sayinge: O my father yf it be possible let this cuppe passe from me: neverthelesse not as I wyll but as thou wylt.
40. And he came vnto the disciples and founde them a slepe and sayde to Peter: what coulde ye not watche with me one houre:
41. watche and praye that ye fall not into temptacion. The spirite is willynge but the flesshe is weake.
42. He went awaye once moare and prayed sayinge: O my father yf this cuppe can not passe away from me but yt I drinke of it thy wyll be fulfylled.
43. And he came and founde the a slepe agayne. For their eyes were hevy.
44. And he lefte them and went agayne and prayed ye thrid tyme sayinge ye same wordes.
45. Then came he to his disciples and sayd vnto them: Slepe hence forth and take youre reest. Take hede the houre is at honde and ye sonne of man shalbe betrayed into ye hondes of synners.
46. Ryse let vs be goinge: beholde he is at honde yt shall betraye me.
47. Whyll he yet spake: lo Iudas one of ye xii. came and wt him a greate multitude wt sweardes and staves sent from the chefe prestes and elders of the people.
48. And he that betrayed him had geven the a token sayinge: whosoever I kysse yt same is he ley hondes on him.
49. And forth wt all he came to Iesus and sayde: hayle master and kyssed him.
50. And Iesus sayde vnto him: frende wherfore arte thou come? Then came they and layed hondes on Iesus and toke him.
51. And beholde one of them which were with Iesus stretched oute his honde and drue his swearde and stroke a servaunt of the hye preste and smote of his eare.
52. Then sayde Iesus vnto him: put vp thy swearde into his sheathe. For all that ley hond on ye swearde shall perisshe with ye swearde.
53. Ether thinkest thou that I cannot now praye to my father and he shall geve me moo then.xii. legions of angelles?
54. But how then shuld the scriptures be fulfylled: for so must it be.
55. The same tyme sayd Iesus to the multitude: ye be come out as it were vnto a thefe with sweardes and staves for to take me. I sate daylie teachinge in the temple amoge you and ye toke me not.
56. All this was done that the scriptures of the Prophetes myght be fulfilled.
57. Then all the disciples forsoke him and fleed. And they toke Iesus and leed him to Cayphas the hye preeste where the Scribes and the Elders where assembled.
58. And Peter folowed him a farre of vnto the hye prestes place: and went in and sate with the servauntes to se the ende.
59. The chefe prestes and the elders and all the counsell sought false witnes agenste Iesus for to put him to deeth
60. but founde none: in somoche that when many false witnesses cam yet founde they none. At the last came two false witnesses
61. and sayd: This felowe sayde: I can distroye the temple of God and bylde it agayne in.iii. dayes.
62. And the chefe preste arose and sayde to him: answerest thou nothinge? How is it yt these beare witnes ageynst the?
63. But Iesus helde his peace: And the chefe Preeste answered and sayd to him: I charge the in the name of the lyvinge God that thou tell vs whether thou be Christ the sonne of God.
64. Iesus sayd to him: thou haste sayd. Neverthelesse I saye vnto you hereafter shall ye se the sonne of ma syttinge on the right honde of power and come in the clowddes of the skye.
65. Then the hye preste rent his clothes sayinge: He hath blasphemed: what nede we of eny moo witnesses? Behold now ye have hearde his blasphemy:
66. what thinke ye? They answered and sayd: he his worthy to dye.
67. Then spat they in his face and boffeted him with fistes. And other smote him with the palme af their hondes
68. on ye face sayinge: tell vs thou Christ who is he that smote the?
69. Peter sate with out in the palice. And a damsell came to him sayinge: Thou also waste wt Iesus of Galilee:
70. but he denyed before the all sayinge: I woot not what thou sayst.
71. When he was goone out into the poorche another wenche sawe him and sayde vnto them that were there: This felowe was also with Iesus of Nazareth.
72. And agayne he denyed with an oothe that he knew the man.
73. And after a whyle came vnto him they yt stode bye and sayde vnto Peter: suerly thou arte even one of the for thy speache bewreyeth ye.
74. Then beganne he to course and to sweare that he knewe not the man. And immedyatly the cocke krewe.
75. And Peter remembred the wordes of Iesu which sayde vnto him: before the cocke crowe thou shalt deny me thryse: and went out at the dores and wepte bitterly.

== Matthew 27 ==
1. When the mornynge was come all ye chefe prestes and the elders of ye people helde a counsayle agenst Iesu to put him to deeth
2. and brought him bounde and delivered him vnto Poncius Pilate the debite.
3. Then when Iudas which betrayed him sawe that he was condempned he repented him sylfe and brought ageyne the.xxx. plattes of sylver to ye chefe prestes and elders
4. sayinge: I have synned betrayinge the innocent bloud. And they sayde: what is that to vs? Se thou to that.
5. And he cast doune the sylver plattes in the temple and departed and went and hounge him sylfe.
6. And the chefe prestes toke the sylver plattes and sayd: it is not lawfull for to put them in to the treasury because it is the pryce of bloud.
7. And they toke counsell and bought with them a potters felde to bury strangers in.
8. Wherfore that felde is called the felde of bloud vntyll this daye.
9. Then was fulfylled that which was spoken by Ieremy the Prophet sayinge: and they toke.xxx. sylver plattes the prise of him that was valued whom they bought of the chyldren of Israel
10. and they gave them for the potters felde as the Lorde appoynted me.
11. Iesus stode before the debite: and the debite axed him sayinge: Arte thou the kynge of ye Iues? Iesus sayd vnto him: Thou sayest
12. and when he was accused of ye chefe prestes and elders he answered nothinge.
13. Then sayd Pilate vnto him: hearest thou not how many thinges they laye ageynste ye?
14. And he answered him to never a worde: in so moche that the debite marveylled greatlie.
15. At that feest the debite was wonte to deliver vnto ye people a presoner whom they wolde desyer.
16. He had then a notable presoner called Barrabas.
17. And when they were gadered together Pilate sayde vnto the: whether wyll ye that I geve losse vnto you Barrabas or Iesus which is called Christ?
18. For he knewe well that for envie they had delivred him.
19. When he was set doune to geve iudgemet his wyfe sent to him sayinge: have thou nothinge to do with that iuste man. For I have suffered many thinges this daye in a dreame about him.
20. But the chefe preestes and the elders had parswaded the people that they shulde axe Barrabas and shulde destroye Iesus.
21. Then the debite answered and sayde vnto them: whether of the twayne wyll ye that I let loosse vnto you? And they sayde Barrabas.
22. Pilate sayde vnto them: what shall I do then with Iesus which is called Christ? They all sayde to him: let him be crucified.
23. Then sayde the debite: what evyll hath he done? And they cryed the more sayinge: let him be crucified.
24. When Pilate sawe that he prevayled nothinge but that moare busines was made he toke water and wasshed his hondes before ye people sayinge: I am innocent of the bloud of this iuste person and that ye shall se.
25. Then answered all the people and sayde: his bloud be on vs and on oure chyldren.
26. Then let he Barrabas loose vnto them and scourged Iesus and delivered him to be crucified.
27. Then the soudeours of the debite toke Iesus vnto the comen hall and gaddered vnto him all the company.
28. And they stripped him and put on him a purpyll roobe
29. and platted a croune of thornes and put vpon his heed and a rede in his ryght honde: and bowed their knees before him and mocked him saying: hayle kinge of the Iewes:
30. and spitted vpon him and toke the rede and smoote him on the heed.
31. And when they had mocked him they toke the robe of him ageyne and put his awne reymet on him and leed him awaye to crucify him.
32. And as they came out they fonnde a man of Cyren named Simon: him they compelled to beare his crosse.
33. And whe they cam vnto ye place called Golgotha (that is to saye a place of deed mens sculles)
34. they gave him veneger to drinke mengled with gall. And when he had tasted therof he wolde not drinke.
35. When they had crucified him they parted his garmentes and did cast lottes: to fulfyll that was spoken by the prophet. They deuyded my garmetes amonge them: and apon my vesture did cast loottes.
36. And they sate and watched him there.
37. And they set vp over his heed the cause of his deeth written. This is Iesus the kynge of the Iewes.
38. And ther were two theves crucified with him one on ye right honde and another on the lyfte.
39. They that passed by revyled him waggynge ther heeddes
40. and sayinge: Thou that destroyest the temple of God and byldest it in thre dayes save thy sylfe. If thou be ye sonne of God come doune from the crosse.
41. Lykwyse also the hye prestes mockinge him with the scribes aud elders sayde:
42. He saved other him sylfe he can not save. If he be ye kynge of Israel: let him now come doune from the crosse and we will beleve him.
43. He trusted in God let him deliver him now yf he will have him: for he sayde I am the sonne of God.
44. That same also the theves which were crucified with him cast in his tethe.
45. From the sixte houre was there dercknes over all the londe vnto the nynth houre.
46. And about ye nynth houre Iesus cryed with a loude voyce sayinge: Eli Eli lama asbathani. That is to saye my God my God why hast thou forsaken me?
47. Some of them that stode there when they herde that sayde: This man calleth for Helyas.
48. And streyght waye one of them ranne and toke a sponge and filled it full of veneger and put it on a rede and gave him to drinke.
49. Other sayde let be: let vs se whyther Helyas will come and deliver him.
50. Iesus cryed agayne with a lowde voyce and yelded vp the goost.
51. And beholde the vayle of the temple dyd rent in twayne from ye toppe to the bottome and the erth dyd quake and the stones dyd rent
52. and graves dyd open: and the bodies of many sainctes which slept arose
53. and came out of ye graves after his resurreccion and came into the holy cite and appered vnto many.
54. When the Centurion and they that were with him watchinge Iesus sawe ye erth quake and those thinges which hapened they feared greatly sayinge. Of a surete this was the sonne of God.
55. And many wemen were there beholdinge him a farre of which folowed Iesus fro Galile ministringe vnto him.
56. Amonge which was Mary Magdalen and Mary the mother of Iames and Ioses and ye mother of zebedes chyldren.
57. When the even was come there came a ryche man of Aramathia named Ioseph which same also was Iesus disciple.
58. He went to Pilate and begged the body of Iesus. Then Pilate commaunded the body to be delivered.
59. And Ioseph toke the body and wrapped it in a clene lynnyn clooth
60. and put it in his newe tombe which he had hewen out even in the roke and rolled a greate stone to the dore of ye sepulcre and departed.
61. And there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sittynge over ageynste the sepulcre.
62. The nexte daye that foloweth good frydaye the hye prestes and pharises got them selves to Pilate
63. and sayde: Syr we remember yt this deceaver sayde whyll he was yet alyve After thre dayes I will aryse agayne.
64. Commaunde therfore that the sepulcre be made sure vntyll ye thyrd daye lest paraventure his disciples come and steale him awaye and saye vnto the people he is rysen from deeth and the laste erroure be worsse then the fyrst.
65. Pilate sayde vnto them. Take watche men: Go and make it as sure as ye can.
66. And they went and made the sepulcre sure with watche men and sealed the stone.

== Matthew 28 ==
1. The Sabboth daye at even which dauneth the morowe after the Sabboth Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to se the sepulcre.
2. And beholde ther was a greate erth quake. For the angell of ye lorde descended from heven: and came and rowlled backe the stone from the dore and sate apon it.
3. His countenaunce was lyke lyghtnynge and his raymet whyte as snowe.
4. And for feare of him the kepers were astunnyed and became as deed men.
5. The angell answered and sayde to the wemen feare ye not. I knowe yt ye seke Iesus which was crucified:
6. he is not here: he is rysen as he sayde. Come and se the place where the lorde was put:
7. and goo quickly and tell his disciples yt he is rysen from deeth. And beholde he will go before you into Galile there ye shall se him. Lo I have tolde you.
8. And they departed quickly from the sepulcre with feare and greate Ioye: and did runne to bringe his disciples worde.
9. And as they went to tell his disciples: beholde Iesus met them sayinge: All hayle. And they came and held him by the fete and worshipped him.
10. The sayde Iesus vnto them: be not afrayde. Go and tell my brethren that they goo in to Galile and there shall they se me.
11. When they were gone: beholde some of the kepers came into the cyte and shewed vnto the hie prestes all the thinges that were hapened.
12. And they gaddered them to gedder with the elders and toke counsell and gave large money vnto the soudiers
13. sayinge: Saye that his disciples came by nyght and stole him awaye whill ye slept.
14. And if this come to the rulers cares we wyll pease him and save you harmeles.
15. And they toke the money and dyd as they were taught. And this sayinge is noysed amoge the Iewes vnto this daye.
16. Then the.xi. disciples went awaye into Galile in to a mountayne where Iesus had appoynted them.
17. And when they sawe hym they worshipped him. But some of them douted.
18. And Iesus came and spake vnto them sayinge: All power ys geve vnto me in heve and in erth.
19. Go therfore and teache all nacions baptysinge them in the name of the father and the sonne and the holy goost:
20. Teachinge them to observe all thynges what soever I comcommaunded you. And lo I am with you all waye even vntyll the ende of the worlde.

== Mark 1 ==
1. The beginnynge of the Gospell of Iesu Christ the sonne of God
2. as yt is wrytten in the Prophetes: beholde I sende my messenger before thy face which shall prepared thy waye before ye.
3. The voyce of a cryer in the wildernes: prepare ye the waye of the Lorde make his paches streyght.
4. Iohn dyd baptise in the wyldernes and preche the baptyme of repentauce for the remission of synnes.
5. And all the londe of Iurie and they of Ierusalem went out vnto him and were all baptised of him in the ryver Iordan confessynge their synnes.
6. Iohn was clothed with cammylles heer and with a gerdyll of a skyn a bout hys loynes. And he dyd eate locustes and wylde hony
7. and preached sayinge: a stronger then I commeth after me whose shue latchet I am not worthy to stoupe doune and vnlose.
8. I have baptised you with water: but he shall baptise you with the holy goost.
9. And yt came to passe in those dayes that Iesus cam from Nazareth a cyte of Galile: and was baptised of Iohn in Iordan.
10. And assone as he was come out of the water Iohn sawe heaven open and the holy goost descendinge vpon him lyke a dove.
11. And ther came a voyce from heaven: Thou arte my dere sonne in whom I delyte.
12. And immediatly the sprete drave him into wildernes:
13. and he was there in the wildernes xl dayes and was tempted of Satan and was with wilde beestes. And the aungels ministred vnto him.
14. After Iohn was taken Iesus came in to Galile preachinge the gospell of the kyngdome of God
15. and sayinge: the tyme is come and the kyngdome of God is at honde repent and beleve the gospell.
16. As he walked by the see of Galile he sawe Simon and Andrew his brother castinge nettes into ye see for they were fysshers.
17. And Iesus sayde vnto them: folowe me and I will make you fisshers of men.
18. And strayght waye they forsoke their nettes and folowed him.
19. And when he had gone a lytell further thence he sawe Iames the sonne of zebede and Ihon his brother even as they were in the shyppe mendinge their nettes.
20. And anone he called them. And they leeft their father zebede in the shippe with his hyred servauntes and went their waye after him.
21. And they entred into Capernau: and streight waye on ye Saboth dayes he entred in to ye synagoge and taught.
22. And they merveled at his learninge. For he taught them as one that had power with him and not as the Scribes.
23. And there was in their synagoge a ma vexed wt an vnclene spirite yt cried
24. sayinge: let be: what have we to do with the thou Iesus of Nazareth? Arte thou come to destroye vs? I knowe the what thou arte eue that holy of god.
25. And Iesus rebuked him sayinge: hoolde thy peace and come out of him.
26. And ye vnclene spirite tare him and cryed with a loude voyce and came out of him.
27. And they were all amased in so moche that they demaunded one of another amoge them selves saying: what thinge is this? what newe doctryne is this? For he comaundeth the foule spirites with power and they obeye him.
28. And immediatly his fame spreed abroade throughoute all the region borderinge on Galile.
29. And forth with as sone as they were come out of the synagoge they entred into ye housse of Symon and Andrew with Iames and Ihon.
30. And Symons mother in lawe lay sicke of a fever. And anone they tolde him of her.
31. And he came and toke her by the honde and lifte her vp: and the fever forsoke hir by and by: and she ministred vnto them.
32. And at even when the sunne was downe they brought to him all that were diseased and them that were possessed with devyls.
33. And all the cite gaddred to gedder at the dore
34. and he healed many yt were sicke of divers deseases. And he cast out many devyls and suffred not ye devyls to speake because they knewe him.
35. And in the morninge very erly Iesus arose and went out into a solitary place and there prayed.
36. And Simon and they that were with him folowed after him.
37. And when they had founde him they sayde vnto him: all men seke for the.
38. And he sayd vnto them: let vs go into the next tounes that I maye preache there also: for truly I cam out for that purpose.
39. And he preached in their synagoges throughout all Galile and cast the devyls out.
40. And there came a leper to him besechinge him and kneled doune vnto him and sayde to him: yf thou wilt thou canest make me clene.
41. And Iesus had copassion on him and put forth his honde touched him and sayde to him: I will be thou clene.
42. And assone as he had spoke immediatly ye leprosy departed fro him and was clensed.
43. And he charged him and sent him awaye forthwith
44. and sayd vnto him: Se thou saye no thinge to any man: but get the hence and shewe thy silfe to ye preste and offer for thy clensinge those thinges which Moses comaunded for a testimoniall vnto them.
45. But he (assone as he was departed) beganne to tell many thinges and to publyshe the dede: in so moche that Iesus coulde no more opely entre in to the cite but was with out in desert places. And they came to him fro every quarter.

== Mark 2 ==
1. After a feawe dayes he entred into Capernaum agayne and it was noysed that he was in a housse.
2. And anone many gadered to geder in so moche that now there was no roume to receave them: no not so moche as about the dore. And he preached the worde vnto them.
3. And there came vnto him that brought one sicke of the palsie borne of fower men.
4. And because they coulde not come nye vnto him for preace they vncovered ye rofe of the housse where he was. And when they had broken it ope they let doune ye beed where in ye sicke of the palsie laye.
5. When Iesus sawe their fayth he sayde to the sicke of the palsie sonne thy sinnes are forgeven the.
6. And ther were certayne of ye scribes sittinge there and reasoninge in their hertes:
7. how doeth this felowe so blaspheme? Who can forgeve synnes but God only?
8. And immediatly whe Iesus perceaved in his sprete yt they so reasoned in the selves he sayde vnto them: why thynke ye soche thinges in youre hertes?
9. Whether is it easyer to saye to ye sicke of ye palsie thy synnes are forgeven the or to saye aryse take vp thy beed and walke?
10. That ye maye knowe yt the sonne of man hath power in erth to forgeve synnes he spake vnto ye sicke of the palsie:
11. I saye vnto ye aryse and take vp thy beed and get ye hense into thyne awne housse.
12. And by and by he arose toke vp the beed and went forth before them all: in so moche that they were all amased and glorified God sayinge: we never sawe it on this fassion.
13. And he went agayne vnto the see and all the people resorted vnto him and he taught the.
14. And as Iesus passed by he sawe Levy ye sonne of Alphey syt at the receyte of custome and sayde vnto him: folowe me. And he arose and folowed him.
15. And it came to passe as Iesus sate at meate in his housse many publicans and synners sate at meate also with Iesus and his disciples. For there were many that folowed him.
16. And when the Scribes and Pharises sawe him eate with publicas and synnere they sayde vnto his disciples: how is it that he eateth and drynketh with publicas and synners?
17. When Iesus hearde yt he sayde vnto them. The whole have no nede of the phisicio but the sicke. I came not to call the rightwise but the synners to repentaunce.
18. And the disciples of Iohn and the Pharises dyd faste: and therfore came and sayde vnto him. Why do ye disciples of Iohn and of the Pharises faste and thy disciples fast not.
19. And Iesus sayde vnto them: can the chyldren of a weddinge faste while the brydgrome is wt them. As longe as they have the brydgrome with them they cannot faste.
20. But the dayes will come when the brydgrome shalbe taken from them and then shall they faste in those dayes.
21. Also no ma soweth a pece of newe cloth vnto an olde garmet for then taketh he awaye ye newe pece fro the olde and so is the rent worsse.
22. In lyke wyse no man poureth newe wyne into olde vessels: for yf he do the newe wyne breaketh the vessels and the wyne runneth out and the vessels are marred. But new wyne must be poured into new vessels.
23. And it chaunsed that he wet thorow ye corne feldes on the Saboth daye: and his disciples as they went on their waye beganne to plucke the eares of corne.
24. And the Pharises sayde vnto him: beholde why do they on the Saboth dayes yt which is not laufull?
25. And he sayde to them: have ye never rede what David dyd when he had nede and was anhogred bothe he and they that were with him?
26. How he went into the housse of God in the dayes of Abiathar ye hye preste and dyd eate ye halowed loves which is not laufull to eate but for ye prestes only: and gave also to the which were with him?
27. And he sayde to them: the Saboth daye was made for man and not man for the Saboth daye.
28. Wherfore the sonne of man is Lorde eve of the Saboth daye.

== Mark 3 ==
1. And he entred agayne into ye synagoge and there was a man there which had a widdred honde.
2. And they watched him to se whether he wolde heale him on the Saboth daye yt they might accuse him.
3. And he sayde vnto ye man which had ye wyddred honde: arise and stonde in ye middes.
4. And he sayd to them: whether is it laufull to do a good dede on ye Saboth dayes or an evyll? to save life or kyll? But they helde their peace.
5. And he loked round aboute on them angerly mournyge on the blindnes of their hertes and sayde to the man: stretch forth thyne honde. And he stretched it oute. And his honde was restored even as whole as the other.
6. And ye Pharises departed and streyght waye gaddred a counsell with the that belonged to Herode agaynst him yt they might destroye him.
7. And Iesus auoyded wt his disciples to ye sea. And a greate multitude folowed him fro Galile and fro Iurie
8. and fro Hierusalem and fro Idumea and fro beyonde Iordane: and they yt dwelled about Tyre and Sidon a greate multitude: which whe they had herde what thinges he dyd came vnto him.
9. And he comaunded his disciples yt a shippe shuld wayte on him because of the people leste they shuld througe him.
10. For he had healed many in somoche that they preased apon him for to touche him as many as had plages.
11. And when the vnclene sprites sawe him they fell doune before him and cryed sayinge: thou arte the sonne of God.
12. And he straygtly charged them that they shuld not vtter him.
13. And he wet vp into a mountayne and called vnto him whom he wolde and they came vnto him.
14. And he ordeyned ye.xii. that they shuld be wt him and that he myght sende the to preache:
15. and that they might have power to heale syknesses and to cast out devyls.
16. And he gave vnto Simon to name Peter.
17. And he called Iames the sonne of zebede and Iohn Iames brother and gave them Bonarges to name which is to saye the sonnes of thounder.
18. And Andrew and Philip and Bartlemew and Mathew and Thomas and Iames the sonne of Alphey and Taddeus and Symon of Cane
19. and Iudas Iscarioth which same also betrayed him. And they came vnto housse
20. and the people assembled togedder agayne so greatly that they had not leesar so moche as to eate breed.
21. And when they that longed vnto him hearde of it they went out to holde him. For they thought he had bene beside him selfe.
22. And ye Scribes which came fro Ierusalem sayde: he hath Belzebub and by ye power of the chefe devyll casteth out devyls.
23. And he called them vnto him and sayde vnto them in similitudes. How can Satan drive out Satan?
24. For yf a realme be devided ageynste it silfe that realme cannot endure.
25. Or yf a housse be devided agaynste it silfe that housse cannot continue:
26. So yf Sata make insurreccion agaynste himsilfe and be devided he cannot continue but is at an ende.
27. No man can entre into a stronge mans housse and take awaye hys gooddes excepte he fyrst bynde that stronge man and then spoyle hys housse.
28. Verely I saye vnto you all synnes shalbe forgeven vnto mens chyldren and blasphemy wherwith they blaspheme.
29. But he that blasphemeth ye holy goost shall never have forgevenes: but is in dauger of eternall dapnacion:
30. because they sayde he had an vnclene sprete.
31. Then came his mother and his brethre and stode with out and sent vnto him and called him.
32. And the people sate aboute hym and sayde vnto him: beholde thy mother and thy brethre seke for the with out.
33. And he answered them sayinge: who is my mother and my brethre?
34. And he loked rounde about on his disciples which sate in compasse about hym and sayde: beholde my mother and my brethren.
35. For whosoever doeth ye will of God he is my brother my syster and mother.

== Mark 4 ==
1. And he began agayne to teache by the seesyde. And there gadered to gedder vnto him moche people so greatly yt he entred into a ship and sate in the see and all the people was by the seeside on the shoore.
2. And he taught them many thynges in similitudes and sayde vnto them in his doctrine:
3. Herken to. Beholde There wet out a sower to sowe.
4. And it fortuned as he sowed that some fell by the waye syde and the fowles of the ayre came and devoured it vp.
5. Some fell on stony grounde where it had not moche erth: and by and by sprange vp because it had not deepth of erth:
6. but as sone as the sunne was vp it caught heet and because it had not rotynge wyddred awaye.
7. And some fell amonge the thornes and the thornes grewe vp and choked it so that it gave no frute.
8. And some fell vpon good grounde and dyd yelde frute that sproge and grewe and brought forthe: some thirty folde some sixtie folde and some an hundred folde.
9. And he sayde vnto them: he that hath eares to heare let him heare.
10. And when he was alone they yt were aboute him with ye.xii. axed him of ye similitude.
11. And he sayde vnto the. To you it is geve to knowe the mistery of the kyngdome of God. But vnto them that are wt out shall all thinges be done in similitudes:
12. yt when they se they shall se and not discerne: and when they heare they shall heare and not vnderstonde: leste at any tyme they shulde tourne and their synnes shuld be forgeve the.
13. And he sayde vnto the: Perceave ye not this similitude? how then shulde ye vnderstonde all other similitudes?
14. The sower soweth ye worde.
15. And they that are by the wayes syde where the worde is sowen are they to whom assone as they have herde it Satha cometh immediatly and takith awaye the worde that was sowe in their hertes.
16. And likewise they that are sowen on the stonye groude are they: which when they have harde the worde at once receave it wt gladnes
17. yet have no rotes in them selves and so endure but a tyme: and anone as trouble and persecucion aryseth for ye wordes sake they fall immediatly.
18. And they that are sowe amoge the thornes are soche as heare ye worde:
19. and ye care of this worlde and ye disseytfulnes of ryches and the lustes of other thinges entre in and choocke ye worde and it is made vnfrutfull.
20. And those that weare sowe in good grounde are they that heare the worde and receave it and bringe forth frute some thirty folde some sixty folde some an hundred folde.
21. And he sayde vnto them: is ye candle lighted to be put vnder a busshell or vnder ye table and not rather to be put on a cadelstick?
22. For there is nothinge so prevy that shall not be opened: nether so secreet but that it shall come abroade.
23. Yf eny man have eares to heare let him heare.
24. And he sayde vnto them: take hede what ye heare. With what measure ye mete with the same shall it be measured vnto you agayne. And vnto you that heare shall more be geve.
25. For vnto him yt hath shall it be geven: and from him that hath not shalbe taken awaye even that he hath.
26. And he sayde: so is the kyngdome of God even as yf a man shuld sowe seed in ye groude
27. and shulde slepe and ryse vp night and daye: and the seede shuld springe and growe vp he not ware.
28. For ye erth bringeth forthe frute of her silfe: fyrst the blade then the eares after that full corne in the eares.
29. And as sone as the frute is brought forth anone he throusteth in ye sykell because the hervest is come.
30. And he sayde: where vnto shall we lyke the kyngdome of God? or with what copareson shall we copare it?
31. It is lyke a grayne of mustard seed which when it is sowe in the erth is the leest of all seedes that be in the erth:
32. but after that it is sowen it groweth vp and is greatest of all yerbes: and bereth greate brauches so that ye fowles of the ayre maye dwell vnder the shadowe of it.
33. And with many soche similitudes he preached the worde vnto the after as they myght heare it.
34. And with out similitude spake he no thinge vnto them. But when they were aparte he expounded all thinges to his disciples.
35. And the same daye when even was come he sayde vnto them: let vs passe over vnto the other syde.
36. And they lefte the people and toke him even as he was in the shyp. And ther were also with him other shippes.
37. And ther arose a great storme of wynde and dasshed ye waves into the ship so that it was full.
38. And he was in the sterne a slepe on a pelowe. And they awoke him and sayde to him: Master carest thou not yt we perisshe?
39. And he rose vp and rebuked the wynde and sayde vnto the see: peace and be still. And the winde alayed and ther folowed a greate calme.
40. And he sayde vnto them: why are ye so fearfull? How is it that ye have no fayth?
41. And they feared excedingly and sayde one to another: what felowe is this? For booth winde and see obey him.

== Mark 5 ==
1. And they cam over to the other syde of ye see in to the coutre of ye Gaderenites.
2. And when he was come out of ye shippe there met him out of the graves a man possessyd of an vncleane sprete
3. which had his abydinge amoge the graves. And no man coulde bynde him: no not with cheynes
4. because that when he was often bounde wt fetters and cheynes he plucked ye chaynes asundre and brake the fetters in peaces. Nether coulde eny man tame him.
5. And alwayes bothe nyght and daye he cryed in ye moutaynes and in ye graves and bet himsilfe wt stones.
6. When he had spied Iesus afarre of he rane and worshipped him
7. and cryed wt a lowde voyce and sayde: what have I to do wt the Iesus ye sonne of the moost hyest God? I requyre ye in the name of God yt thou tormet me not.
8. For he had sayd vnto hym: come out of the man thou fowle sprete.
9. And he axed him: what is thy name? And he answered sayinge: my name is Legion for we are many.
10. And he prayd him instantly that he wolde not sende the awaye out of the countre.
11. And ther was there nye vnto ye moutayns a greate heerd of swyne fedinge
12. and all the devyls besought him sayinge: sende vs into the heerde of swyne yt we maye enter in to them.
13. And anone Iesus gave them leave. And the vnclene spretes wet out and entred into ye swyne. And the heerd starteled and ran hedling into the see. They were about.ii.M. swyne and they were drouned in the see.
14. And the swyne heerdes fleed and tolde it in ye cyte and in the countre. And they came out for to se what had hapened:
15. and came to Iesus and sawe hym that was vexed wt the fende and had the legio syt both clothed and in his right mynde and were afrayed.
16. And they that sawe it tolde them how it had happened vnto him that was possessed with the devyll: and also of the swyne.
17. And they begane to praye him that he wolde departe fro their coostes.
18. And when he was come in to the shyppe he that had ye devyll prayed him that he myght be with him.
19. Howbeit Iesus wolde not suffre him but sayde vnto him: goo home in to thyne awne housse and to thy frendes and shewe the what great thinges ye Lorde hath done vnto the and how he had copassion on the.
20. And he departed and begane to publisshe in ye ten cyties what greate thinges Iesus had done vnto him and all me dyd merveyle.
21. And when Iesus was come over agayne by shyp vnto the other syde moche people gadered vnto him and he was nye vnto the see.
22. And beholde ther came one of the rulers of ye Synagoge whose name was Iairus: and when he sawe him he fell doune at his fete
23. and besought hym greatly sayinge: my doughter lyith at poynt of deeth I wolde thou woldest come and laye thy honde on her that she myght be safe and live.
24. And he wet with him and moche people folowed him and thronged him.
25. And ther was a certen woman which was diseased of an yssue of bloude.xii. yeres
26. and had suffred many thinges of many phisicios and had spet all yt she had and felte none amendmet at all but wexed worsse and worsse.
27. When she had herde of Iesus: she came into the preace behynde him and touched his garmet.
28. For she thought: yf I maye but touche his clothes I shall be whole.
29. And streyght waye her foutayne of bloude was dryed vp aud she felt in her body that she was healed of the plage.
30. And Iesus immediatly felt in him silfe ye vertue that wet out of him and tourned him roude aboute in the preace and sayde: who touched my clothes?
31. And his disciples sayde vnto him: seist thou ye people thrust the and yet axest who dyd touche me?
32. And he loked roud about for to se her that had done that thinge.
33. The woman feared and trembled (for she knew what was done with in her) and she came and fell doune before him and tolde him ye truth of everythinge.
34. And he sayde to her: Doughter thy fayth hath made the whoale: goo in peace and be whole of thy plage.
35. Whyll he yet spake ther came fro the ruler of ye synagoges housse certayne which sayde: thy doughter is deed: why diseasest thou ye master eny further?
36. Assone as Iesus herde that worde spoke he sayde vnto the ruler of ye synagoge: be not afrayed only beleve.
37. And he suffred no man to folowe him moo then Peter and Iames and Ihon the brother of Iames.
38. And he came vnto the housse of the ruler of ye synagoge and sawe ye wondrynge and them that wepte and wayled greatly
39. and went in and sayde vnto them: why make ye this adoo and wepe? The mayde is not deed but slepith.
40. And they lawght him to scorne. Then he put them all out and toke ye father and the mother of ye mayden and them that were with him and entred in where the mayden laye
41. and toke the mayden by the honde and sayde vnto hyr: Tabitha cumi: which is by interpretacion: mayde I saye vnto the aryse.
42. And streyght the mayden arose and went on her fete. For she was of the age of twelve yeres. And they were astonied at it out of measure.
43. And he charged the straytely that no man shuld knowe of it and comaunded to geve her meate.

== Mark 6 ==
1. And he departed thence and cam into his awne countre and his disciples folowed him.
2. And whe the saboth daye was come he beganne to teache in ye synagsge. And many that hearde him were astonyed and sayde: From whens hath he these thinges? and what wysdo is this that is geve vnto him? and suche vertues yt are wrought by his hondes?
3. Is not this that carpeter Maryes sonne ye brother of Iames and Ioses and of Iuda and Simon? and are not his systers here with vs? And they were offended by him.
4. And Iesus sayde vnto the: a prophet is not despysed but in his awne coutre and amonge his awne kynne and amonge the that are of the same housholde.
5. And he coulde there shewe no miracles but leyd his hondes apon a feawe sicke foolke and healed the.
6. And he merveyled at their vnbelefe. And he went aboute by ye tounes yt laye on every syde teachynge.
7. And he called ye twelve and beganne to sende them two and two and gave them power over vnclene spretes.
8. And comaunded the that they shuld take nothinge vnto their Iorney save a rodde only: Nether scrippe nether breed nether mony in their pourses:
9. but shuld be shood with sandals. And that they shuld not put on two coottes.
10. And he sayd vnto the: whersoever ye entre in to an house there abyde tyll ye departe thence
11. And whosoever shall not receave you nor heare you when ye departe thence shake of the duste that is vnder youre fete for a witnesse vnto them. I saye verely vnto you it shalbe easyer for Zodom and Gomor at the daye of iudgement then for that cite.
12. And they went out and preached that they shuld repent:
13. and they caste out many devylles. And they annoynted many that were sicke with oyle and healed them.
14. And kynge Herode herde of him (for his name was spreed abroade) and sayd: Iohn Baptiste is rysen agayne from deeth and therfore miracles are wrought by him.
15. Wother sayd it is Helyas: and some sayde: it is a Prophet or as one of ye Prophetes.
16. But when Herode hearde of him he sayd: it is Iohn whom I beheded he is rysen from deeth agayne.
17. For Herode him sylfe had sent forth and had taken Iohn and bounde him and cast him into preson for Herodias sake which was his brother Philippes wyfe. For he had maried her.
18. Iohn sayd vnto Herode: It is not laufull for the to have thy brothers wyfe.
19. Herodias layd wayte for him and wolde have killed him but she coulde not.
20. For Herode feared Iohn knowynge yt he was a iuste man and an holy: and gave him reverence: and when he hearde him he dyd many thinges and hearde him gladly.
21. But when a couenient daye was come: Herode on his birth daye made a supper to ye lordes captayns and chefe estates of Galile.
22. And ye doughter of ye sayde Herodias came in and daused and pleased Herode and them that sate at bourde also. Then ye kynge sayd vnto ye mayden: axe of me what thou wilt and I will geve it ye
23. And he sware vnto hyr whatsoever thou shalt axe of me I will geve it ye even vnto ye one halfe of my kyngdome.
24. And she wet forth and sayde to her mother: what shall I axe? And she sayde: Iohn Baptistes heed.
25. And she cam in streygth waye with haste vnto ye kynge and axed sayinge: I will that thou geve me by and by in a charger ye heed of Iohn Baptist.
26. And ye kynge was sory: howbe it for his othes sake and for their sakes which sate at supper also he wolde not put her besyde her purpose.
27. And immediatly ye kynge sent ye hangma and comaunded his heed to be brought in. And he went and beheeded him in the preson
28. and brought his heed in a charger and gave it to the mayden and the mayden gave it to her mother.
29. And when his disciples hearde of it they came and toke vp his body and put it in a toumbe.
30. And the apostels gaddered them selves to ggedre to Iesus and tolde him all thinges booth what they had done and what they had taught.
31. And he sayd vnto them: come ye aparte into the wyldernes and rest awhyle. For there were many comers and goers that they had no leasure so moche as to eate.
32. And he wet by ship out of the waye into a deserte place.
33. But the people spyed them when they departed: and many knewe him and ranne afote thyther out of all cities and cam thyther before them and came togedder vnto him.
34. And Iesus went out and sawe moche people and had compassion on them because they were lyke shepe which had no shepeherde. And he beganne to teache them many thinges.
35. And when ye daye was nowe farre spet his disciples came vnto him sayinge: this is a desert place and now the daye is farre passed
36. let the departe that they maye goo into the countrey rounde about and into the tounes and bye the breed: for they have nothinge to eate.
37. He answered and sayde vnto them: geve ye the to eate. And they sayde vnto him: shall we goo and bye ii.C. penyworth of breed and geve the to eate?
38. He sayde vnto the: how many loves have ye? Goo and loke. And when they had serched they sayde: v. and.ii. fysshes.
39. And he comaunded them to make them all syt doune by companyes apon the grene grasse.
40. And they sate doune here a rowe and there arowe by houndredes and by fyfties.
41. And he toke ye.v. loves and ye ii. fysshes and loked vp to heven and blessed and brake the loves and gave them to his disciples to put before the: and the.ii. fysshes he devyded amonge them all.
42. And they all dyd eate and were satisfied.
43. And they toke vp twelve baskettesfull of the gobbettes and of ye fysshes.
44. And they that ate were about fyve thousand men.
45. And streyght waye he caused his disciples to goo into the shipe and to goo over the water before vnto Bethsaida whyll he sent awaye the people.
46. And assone as he had sent them away he departed into a moutayne to praye.
47. And when even was come the ship was in the middes of the see and he alone on the londe
48. and he sawe the troubled in rowynge for the wynde was cotrary vnto them. And aboute ye fourth quartre of ye nyght he came vnto the walkinge apon the see and wolde have passed by the.
49. When they sawe him walkinge apon the see they supposed it had bene a sprete and cryed oute:
50. For they all sawe him and were afrayed. And anon he talked with them and sayde vnto them: be of good chere it is I be not afrayed.
51. And he went vp vnto them into the shippe and the wynde ceased and they were sore amased in them selves beyonde measure and marveyled.
52. For they remembred not of the loves because their hertes were blynded.
53. And they came over and went into the londe of Genezareth and drue vp into the haven.
54. And assone as they were come out of ye shippe streyght they knewe him
55. and ran forth throughout all ye region rounde about and began to cary aboute in beeddes all yt were sicke to the place where they heard tell yt he was.
56. And whyther soever he entred into tounes cities or villages they layde their sicke in the stretes and prayed him that they myght touche and it were but the edge of his vesture. And as many as touched him were safe.

== Mark 7 ==
1. And ye pharises came togedder vnto him and dyvers of ye scribes which came from Ierusalem.
2. And whe they sawe certayne of his disciples eate breed wt comen hondes (that is to saye wt vnwesshen hondes) they coplayned.
3. For the pharises and all the Iewes excepte they washe their hondes ofte eate not observinge the tradicions of the elders.
4. And whe they come from the market except they washe they eate not. And many other thinges ther be which they have taken apon them to observe as the wasshinge of cuppes and cruses and of brasen vessels and of tables.
5. Then axed him the pharises and sribes why walke not thy disciples accordinge to ye tradicions of the elders but eate breede with vnweshen hondes?
6. He answered and sayde vnto them: well prophesied Esaias of you ypocrites as it is writte: This people honoreth me with their lyppes but their hert is farre from me:
7. In vayne they worshippe me teachinge doctryns which are nothinge but ye comaundementes of men.
8. For ye laye the commaundement of God aparte and observe the tradicions of men as the wesshinge of cruses and of cuppes and many other suche lyke thinges ye do.
9. And he sayde vnto them: well ye cast asyde the comaundement of God to mayntayne youre owne tradicios.
10. For Moses sayde: Honoure thy father and thy mother: and whosoever cursseth father or mother let him dye for it.
11. But ye saye: a man shall saye to father or mother Corban: which is: that thou desyrest of me to helpe the with is geven God.
12. And so ye soffre him no more to do ought for his father or his mother
13. makinge the worde of God of none effecte through youre awne tradicions which ye have ordeyned. And many soche thinges ye do.
14. And he called all the people vnto him and sayde vnto them: Herken vnto me every one of you and vnderstonde.
15. There is no thinge with out a man that can defyle him when it entreth into him: but thoo thinges which procede out of him are those which defyle ye man.
16. If eny man have eares to heare let him heare
17. And whe he came to house awaye fro the people his disciples axed him of the similitude.
18. And he sayd vnto the: Are ye so without vnderstondinge? Do ye not yet perceave yt whatsoever thinge from wt out entreth into a man it can not defyle him
19. because it entrith not in to his hert but into ye belly: and goeth out into the draught that porgeth oute all meates.
20. And he sayde: yt defileth a ma which cometh oute of a man.
21. For fro wt in even oute of the herte of men proceade evill thoughtes: advantry fornicacion murder
22. theeft coveteousnes wickednes diceyte vnclennes and a wicked eye blasphemy pryde folysshnes:
23. all these evyll thinges come from with in and defile a man.
24. And from thence he rose and went into ye borders of Tyre and Sidon and entred into an housse and wolde that no man shnld have knowen: But he coulde not be hyd.
25. For a certayne woma whose doughter had a foule sprete hearde of him and came and fell at his fete.
26. The woman was a Greke oute of Syrophenicia and she besought him yt he wolde caste out ye devyll oute of her doughter.
27. And Iesus sayde vnto her: let the chyldren fyrst be feed. For it is not mete to take the chyldres breed and to caste it vnto whelppes.
28. She answered and sayde vnto him: even soo master neverthelesse the whelppes also eate vnder the table of the chyldrens cromes.
29. And he sayde vnto her: for this sayinge goo thy waye the devyll is gone out of thy doughter.
30. And when she was come home to her housse she founde the devyll departed and her doughter lyinge on the beed.
31. And he departed agayne from the coostes of Tyre and Sidon and came vnto the see of Galile thorowe ye middes of the coostos of ye.x. cities.
32. And they brought vnto him one yt was deffe and stambred in his speche and prayde him to laye his honde apon him.
33. And he toke him asyde from ye people and put his fyngers in his eares and dyd spyt and touched his tounge
34. and loked vp to heven and sygthed and sayde vnto him: ephatha that is to saye be openned.
35. And streyght waye his eares were openned and the stringe of his tounge was loosed and he spake playne.
36. And he comaunded them that they shuld tell no man. But the more he forbad them soo moche the more a greate deale they publesshed it:
37. and were beyonde measure astonyed sayinge: He hath done all thinges well and hath made booth the deffe to heare and the dome to speake.

== Mark 8 ==
1. In those dayes whe ther was a very greate companye and had nothinge to eate Iesus called his disciples to him and sayd vnto the:
2. I have copassion on this people because they have nowe bene with me.iii. dayes and have nothinge to eate:
3. And yf I shuld sende the awaye fastinge to their awne houses they shulde faynt by the waye. For dyvers of the came from farre.
4. And his disciples answered him: where shuld a man have breade here in the wildernes to satisfie these?
5. And he axed them: how many loves have ye? They sayde: seven.
6. And he commaunded the people to syt doune on the grounde. And he toke the.vii. loves gave thankes brake and gave to his disciples to set before them. And they dyd set the before the people.
7. And they had a feawe smale fysshes. And he blessed them and comaunded them also to be set before them.
8. And they ate and were suffysed: And they toke vp yf the broken meate that was lefte.vii. baskettes full.
9. And they yt ate were in nomber aboute fowre thousand. And he sent them awaye.
10. And a none he entred into a ship wt his disciples and came into the parties of Dalmanutha.
11. And the pharises cam forth and begane to dispute with him sekinge of him a signe fro heven and temptinge him.
12. And he sygthed in his sprete and sayde: why doth this generacion seke a signe? Verely I saye vnto you ther shall no signe be geven vnto this generacion.
13. And he lefte the and went into the ship agayne and departed over the water.
14. And they had forgotte to take breed wt the nether had they in the ship with them more then one loofe.
15. And he charged the sayinge. Take hede and beware of ye leven of ye pharises and of ye leve of Herode.
16. And they reasoned amonge the selves sayinge: we have no breed
17. And whe Iesus knewe yt he sayde vnto the: why take ye thought because ye have no bread? perceave ye not yet nether vnderstonde? Have ye youre hertes yet blynded?
18. Have ye eyes and se not? and have ye eares and heare not? Do ye not remember?
19. When I brake v. loves amonge.v.M. How many baskettes full of broke meate toke ye vp? They sayde vnto him twelve.
20. When I brake.vii. amonge.iiii. M. How many basketes of the levinges of broken meate toke ye vp? they sayde.vii.
21. And he sayde vnto the: how is it yt ye vnderstonde not?
22. And he came to Bethsaida and they brought a blynde man vnto him and desyred him to touche him.
23. And he caught the blynde by the honde and leade him out of the toune and spat in his eyes and put his hondes apon him and axed him whether he saw ought.
24. And he loked vp and sayde: I se ye men: For I se the walke as they were trees.
25. After that he put his hondes agayne apon his eyes and made him see. And he was restored to his sight and sawe every ma clerly.
26. And he sent him home to his housse sayinge: nether goo into the toune nor tell it to eny in the toune.
27. And Iesus went out and his disciples into the tounes that longe to the cite called Cesarea Philippi. Aud by the waye he axed his disciples sayinge: whom do men saye yt I am?
28. And they answered: some saye that thou arte Iohn Baptiste: some saye Helyas: and some one of the Prophetes.
29. And he sayde vnto the: But whom saye ye that I am? Peter answered and sayd vnto him: Thou arte very Christe.
30. And he charged them that they shuld tell no man of it.
31. And he beganne to teache them how that the sonne of man must suffre many thinges and shuld be reproved of the elders and of the hye prestes and scribes and be kylled and after thre dayes aryse agayne.
32. And he spake that sayinge openly. And Peter toke him asyde and began to chyde him.
33. Then he tourned aboute and looked on his disciples and rebuked Peter sayinge: Goo after me Satan. For thou saverest not ye thinges of God but the thinges of men.
34. And he called the people vnto him with his disciples also and sayd vnto them: Whosoever will folowe me let him forsake him sylfe and take vp his crosse and folowe me.
35. For whosoever will save his lyfe shall lose it But whosoever shall lose his lyfe for my sake and ye gospels ye same shall save it.
36. What shall it profet a ma yf he shuld wynne all ye worlde and loose his awne soule?
37. or els what shall a ma geve to redeme his soule agayne?
38. Whosoever therfore shall be asshamed of me and of my wordes amonge this advoutrous and sinfull generacion: of him shall the sonne of man be ashamed when he cometh in the glory of his father wt the holy angels.

== Mark 9 ==
1. And he sayde vnto them: Verely I saye vnto you: There be some of the that stonde here which shall not taste of deeth tyll they have sene the kyngdome of God come wt power.
2. And after.vi. dayes Iesus toke Peter Iames and Iohn and leede them vp into an hye mountayne out of ye waye alone and he was transfigured before them.
3. And his rayment dyd shyne and was made very whyte even as snowe: so whyte as noo fuller can make apon the erth.
4. And ther apered vnto them Helyas with Moses: and they talked with Iesu.
5. And Peter answered and sayde to Iesu: Master here is good beinge for vs let vs make.iii. tabernacles one for the one for Moses and one for Helyas.
6. And yet he wist not what he sayde: for they were afrayde.
7. And ther was a cloude that shaddowed the. And a voyce came out of the cloude sayinge: This is my dere sonne here him.
8. And sodenly they loked rounde aboute them and sawe no man more then Iesus only wt the.
9. And as they came doune from the hyll he charged the that they shuld tell no ma what they had sene tyll the sonne of man were rysen fro deeth agayne.
10. And they kepte that sayinge with them and demaunded one of a nother what yt rysinge from deeth agayne shuld meane?
11. And they axed him sayinge: why then saye ye scribe that Helyas muste fyrste come?
12. He answered and sayde vnto them: Helyas verelye shall fyrst come and restore all thinges. And also ye sonne of ma as it is wrytte shall suffre many thinges and shall be set at nought.
13. Moreouer I saye vnto you that Helyas is come and they have done vnto him whatsoever pleased them as it is wrytten of him.
14. And he came to his disciples and sawe moche people aboute them and the scribes disputinge with them.
15. And streyght waye all the people when they behelde him were amased and ran to him and saluted him.
16. And he sayde vnto the Scribes: what dispute ye with them?
17. And one of the copanye answered and sayde: Master I have brought my sonne vnto the which hath a dome spirite.
18. And whensoever he taketh him he teareth him and he fometh and gnassheth with his tethe and pyneth awaye. And I spake to thy disciples that they shuld caste him out and they coulde not.
19. He answered him and sayd: O generacion wt out faith how longe shall I be with you? How longe shall I suffre you? Bringe him vnto me.
20. And they brought him vnto him. And assone as ye sprete sawe him he tare him. And he fell doune on the grounde walowinge and fomynge.
21. And he axed his father: how longe is it a goo sens this hath happened him? And he sayde of a chylde:
22. and ofte tymes casteth him into the fyre and also into the water to destroye him. But yf thou canste do eny thinge have mercy on vs and helpe vs.
23. And Iesus sayde vnto him: ye yf thou couldest beleve all thinges are possible to him yt belevith.
24. And streygth waye the father of the chylde cryed with teares sayinge: Lorde I beleve helpe myne vnbelefe.
25. When Iesus sawe that the people came runnynge togedder vnto him he rebuked the foule sprete sayinge vnto him: Thou domme and deffe sprete I charge the come out of him and entre no more into him.
26. And the sprete cryed and rent him sore and came out: And he was as one that had bene deed in so moche yt many sayde he is deed.
27. But Iesus caught his honde and lyfte him vp: and he roose.
28. And when he was come into the housse his disciples axed him secretly: why coulde not we caste him out?
29. And he sayde vnto them: this kynde can by no nother meanes come forth but by prayer and fastynge.
30. And they departed thens and toke their iorney thorow Galile and he wolde not that eny man shuld have knowen it.
31. For he taught his disciples and sayde vnto them: The sonne of man shalbe delyvered into ye hondes of men and they shall kyll him and after that he is kylled he shall aryse agayne the thryd daye.
32. But they wiste not what that sayinge meat and were affrayed to axe him.
33. And he came to Capernaum. And when he was come to housse he axed the: what was it that ye disputed bytwene you by the waye?
34. And they helde their peace: for by the waye they reasoned amonge the selves who shuld be the chefest.
35. And he sate doune and called the twelve vnto him and sayd to them: yf eny man desyre to be fyrst the same shalbe last of all and servaunt vnto all.
36. And he toke a chylde and set him in ye middes of them and toke him in his armes and sayde vnto them.
37. Whosoever receave eny soche a chylde in my name receaveth me. And whosoever receaveth me receaveth not me but him that sent me.
38. Iohn answered him sayinge: Master we sawe one castynge out devyls in thy name which foloweth not vs and we forbade him because he foloweth vs not.
39. But Iesus sayde forbid him not. For ther is no ma that shall do a miracle in my name that can lightlyge speake evyll of me.
40. Whosoever is not agaynste you is on youre parte.
41. And whosoever shall geve you a cuppe of water to drinke for my names sake because ye belonge to Christe verely I saye vnto you he shall not loose his rewarde.
42. And whosoever shall offende one of these lytelons yt beleve in me it were better for him yt a mylstone were hanged aboute his necke and yt he he were cast into ye see:
43. wherfore yf thy hande offende ye cut him of. It is better for ye to entre into lyffe maymed then havynge two hondes goo into hell into fire yt never shalbe quenched
44. where there worme dyeth not and the fyre never goeth oute.
45. Lykewyse yf thy fote offende the cut him of. For it is better for the to goo halt into lyfe then havynge two fete to be cast into hell into fyre that never shalbe quenched:
46. where there worme dyeth not and the fyre never goeth oute.
47. Even so yf thyne eye offende the plucke him oute. It is better for the to goo into the kyngdom of god with one eye then havynge two eyes to be caste into hell fyre:
48. where there worme dyeth not and the fyre never goeth oute.
49. Every man therfore shalbe salted wt fyre: And every sacrifise shalbe seasoned with salt.
50. Salt is good. But yf ye salt be vnsavery: what shall ye salte therwith? Se yt ye have salt in youre selves: and have peace amonge youre selves one with another.

== Mark 10 ==
1. And he rose from thence and went into ye coostes of Iurie through the region yt is beyonde Iordan. And ye people resorted vnto him afresshe: and as he was wont he taught them agayne.
2. And the pharises came and axed him a question: whether it were laufull for a ma to put awaye his wyfe: to prove him.
3. And he answered and sayd vnto the: what dyd Moses byd you do?
4. And they sayde: Moses suffred to wryte a testimoniall of devorsement and to put hyr awaye.
5. And Iesus answered and sayd vnto the: For ye hardnes of youre hertes he wrote this precept vnto you.
6. But at the fyrste creacion God made the man and woman.
7. And for this thinges sake shall ma leve his father and mother and bide by his wyfe
8. and they twayne shalbe one flesshe. So then are they now not twayne but one flesshe.
9. Therfore what God hath cuppled let not ma separat.
10. And in the housse his disciples axed him agayne of yt matter.
11. And he sayde vnto them: Whosoever putteth awaye his wyfe and maryeth another breaketh wedlocke to her warde.
12. And yf a woman forsake her husband and be maryed to another she comitteth advoutrie.
13. And they brought chyldren to him that he should touche the. And his disciples rebuked thoose that brought the.
14. When Iesus sawe that he was displeased and sayd to the: Suffre the chyldre to come vnto me and forbid the not. For of suche is ye kyngdome of God.
15. Verely I saye vnto you whosoever shall not receave ye kyngdome of God as a chylde he shall not entre therin.
16. And he toke the vp in his armes and put his hondes vpon them and blessed the.
17. And when he was come in to the waye ther came one runninge and kneled to him and axed him: good master what shall I do that I maye enheret eternall lyfe?
18. Iesus sayde to him: why callest thou me good? There is no ma good but one which is God.
19. Thou knowest the comaundementes: breake not matrimony: kyll not: steale not: bere not falce wytnes: defraude no man: honoure thy father and mother.
20. He answered and sayde to him: master all these I have observed fro my youth.
21. Iesus behelde him and had a favour to him and sayde vnto him: one thynge is lackinge vnto the. Goo and sell all that thou hast and geve to the povre and thou shalt have treasure in heven and come and folowe me and take vp thy crosse.
22. But he was discuforted with yt sayinge and wet awaye morninge for he had greate possessions.
23. And Iesus loked rounde aboute and sayde vnto his disciples: what an harde thinge is it for them that have riches to entre into the kyngdome of God.
24. And his disciples were astonneyd at his wordes. But Iesus answered agayne and sayde vnto them: chyldre how harde is it for them that trust in riches to entre in to the kyngdome of God.
25. It is easyer for a camell to go thorowe ye eye of an nedle then for a riche man to entre into the kyngdome of God.
26. And they were astonnyed out of measure sayinge betwene them selves: who then can be saved?
27. Iesus loked vpon them and sayde: with men it is vnpossible but not with God: for with God all thynges are possible.
28. And Peter begane to saye vnto him: Lo we have forsaken all and have folowed the.
29. Iesus answered and sayde: Verely I saye vnto you ther is no man that forsaketh housse or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wyfe other chyldren or londes for my sake and the gospelles
30. which shall not receave an houndred foolde nowe in this lyfe: houses and brethren and sisters and mothers and chyldren and londes with persecucions: and in the worlde to come eternall lyfe.
31. Many that are fyrst shalbe last: and the last fyrst.
32. And they were in ye waye goinge vp to Ierusalem. And Iesus wet before them: and they were amased and as they folowed were affrayde. And Iesus toke ye.xii. agayne and begane to tell the what thinges shuld happe vnto him.
33. Beholde we goo vp to Ierusalem and the sonne of man shalbe delyvered vnto the hye preestes and vnto the Scribes: and they shall condempne him to deeth and shall delyvre him to the gentyls:
34. and they shall mocke hym and scourge him and spit vpo hym and kyll him. And the thirde daye he shall ryse agayne.
35. And then Iames and Iohn ye sonnes of zebede came vnto him sayinge: master we wolde that thou shuldest do for vs what soever we desyre.
36. He sayde vnto them: what wolde ye I shuld do vnto you?
37. They sayd to him: graut vnto vs that we maye sitte one on thy right honde and the other on thy lyfte honde in thy glory.
38. But Iesus sayd vnto the: Ye wot not what ye axe. Can ye dryncke of the cup that I shall dryncke of and be baptised in ye baptime that I shalbe baptised in?
39. And they sayde vnto him: that we can. Iesus sayde vnto them: ye shall dryncke of the cup that I shall dryncke of and be baptised with the baptyme that I shalbe baptised in:
40. but to sit on my right honde and on my lyfte honde ys not myne to geve but to them for whom it is prepared.
41. And when the.x. hearde that they bega to disdayne at Iames and Iohn.
42. But Iesus called the vnto him and sayde to them: ye knowe that they which seme to beare rule amonge the gentyls raygne as lordes over the. And they that be greate amoge them exercyse auctorite over them.
43. So shall it not be amonge you but whosoever of you wilbe greate amoge you shalbe youre minister.
44. And whosoever wilbe chefe shalbe servaunt vnto all.
45. For eve the sonne of man came not to be ministred vnto: but to minister and to geve his lyfe for the redempcion of many.
46. And they came to Hierico. And as he went oute of Hierico with his disciples and a greate nobre of people: Barthimeus ye sonne of Thimeus which was blinde sate by ye hye wayes syde begginge.
47. And when he hearde that it was Iesus of Nazareth he began to crye and to saye: Iesus the sonne of David have mercy on me.
48. And many rebuked him yt he shuld holde is peace. But he cryed the moore a greate deale thou sonne of David have mercy on me.
49. And Iesus stode still and commaunded hym to be called. And they called the blinde sayinge vnto him: Be of good conforte: ryse he calleth the.
50. And he threwe awaye his clooke and roose and came to Iesus.
51. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto hym: what wilt thou that I do vnto the? The blynde sayde vnto hym: master that I myght see.
52. Iesus sayde vnto him: goo thy waye thy faith hath saved the. And by and by he receaved his sight and folowed Iesus in the waye.

== Mark 11 ==
1. And when they came nye to Hierusalem vnto Bethphage and Bethanie besydes mout olivete he sent forth two of his hisciples
2. and sayde vnto the: Goo youre wayes into the toune that is over agaynst you. And assone as ye be entred into it ye shall fynde a coolte bounde wheron never man sate: loose him and bringe him.
3. And if eny man saye vnto you: why do ye soo? Saye that the Lorde hath neade of him: and streight waye he will sende him hidder.
4. And they wet their waye and foud a coolte tyed by the dore with out in a place where two wayes met and they losed him.
5. And divers of the that stode there sayde vnto the: what do ye loosinge ye coolte?
6. And they sayd vnto them eve as Iesus had comaunded the. And they let them goo.
7. And they brought ye coolte to Iesus and caste their garmetes on him: and he sate vpo him.
8. And many sprede there garmetes in the waye. Other cut doune brauches of the trees and strawed them in ye waye.
9. And they yt went before and they that folowed cryed sayinge: Hos anna: blessed be he that cometh in ye name of ye Lorde.
10. Blessed be ye kingdome that cometh in ye name of him yt is Lorde of oure father David. Hos anna in ye hyest.
11. And ye Lorde entred in to Ierusalem and into the teple. And when he had loked roudabout vpon all thinges and now ye eve tyde was come he went out vnto Bethany with ye twelve.
12. And on the morowe when they were come out fro Bethany he hungred
13. and spyed a fygge tree a farre of havinge leves and wet to se whether he myght finde eny thinge ther on. But when he came therto he foude no thinge but leves: for the tyme of fygges was not yet.
14. And Iesus answered and sayde to it: never man eate frute of the here after whill ye worlde stondith. And his disciples hearde it.
15. And they came to Ierusalem. And Iesus wet into the teple and begane to cast out ye sellers and byers in the teple and overthrewe the tables of the money chaungers and the stoles of them that solde doves:
16. and wolde not suffre that eny man caried a vessell thorow the temple.
17. And he taught sayinge vnto them is it not written: my housse shalbe called the housse of prayer vnto all nacions? But ye have made it a deen of theves.
18. And the Scribes and hye prestes hearde yt and sought howe to distroye him. For they feared him because all the people marveled at his doctrine.
19. And when eve was come he went out of the cite.
20. And in the mornynge as they passed by they sawe the fygge tree dryed vp by ye rotes.
21. And Peter remembred and sayde vnto him: master beholde the fygge tree which thou cursedest is widdred awaye.
22. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: Have confides in God.
23. Verely I saye vnto you that whosoever shall saye vnto this mountayne: take awaye thy silfe and cast thy silfe in to the see and shall not waver in his herte but shall beleve yt those thinges which he sayeth shall come to passe what soever he sayeth shalbe done to him.
24. Therfore I saye vnto you what soever ye desyre when ye praye beleve yt ye shall have it and it shalbe done vnto you.
25. And when ye stod and praye forgeve yf ye have eny thinge agaynste eny man yt youre father also which is in heve maye forgeve you youre trespases.
26. 
27. And they came agayne to Hierusalem. And as he walked in the teple ther came to him ye hye prestes and the Scribes and the elders
28. and sayd vnto him: by what auctorite doest thou these thinges? and who gave the this auctorite to do these thinges?
29. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: I will also axe of you a certayne thinge: and answere ye me and I wyll tell you by what auctorite I do these thinges.
30. The baptyme of Iohn was it from heven or of men? Answer me.
31. And they thought in them selves sayinge: yf we shall saye from heven: he will saye why then dyd ye not beleve him?
32. but if we shall saye of me: then feare we ye people. For all men counted Iohn that he was a verie Prophete.
33. And they answered and sayd vnto Iesu: we cannot tell. And Iesus answered and sayd vnto them: nether wyll I tell you by what auctorite I do these thynges.

== Mark 12 ==
1. And he beganne to speake vnto them in similitudes. A certayne man planted a vineyarde and copased it with an hedge and ordeyned a wyne presse and bylt a toure in yt. And let yt out to hyre vnto husbandme and went into a straunge countre.
2. And when the tyme was come he sent to the tennauntes a servaunt that he myght receave of the tenauntes of the frute of the vyneyarde.
3. And they caught him and bet him and sent him agayne emptye.
4. And moreoever he sent vnto them another servaunt and at him they cast stones and brake his heed and sent him agayne all to revyled.
5. And agayne he sent another and him they kylled: and many other beetynge some and kyllinge some.
6. Yet had he one sonne whom he loved tenderly him also he sent at the last vnto them sayinge: they wyll feare my sonne.
7. But the tenauntes sayde amongest them selves: this is the heyre: come let vs kyll hym and ye inheritauce shalbe oures.
8. And they toke him and kyllid him and cast him out of the vyneyarde.
9. What shall then the lorde of the vyneyarde do? He will come and destroye ye tenauntes and let out the vyneyarde to other.
10. Have ye not redde this scripture? The stoone which ye bylders dyd refuse is made ye chefe stoone in ye corner:
11. this was done of ye Lorde and is mervelous in oure eyes.
12. And they went about to take him but they feared the people. For they perceaved that he spake that similitude agaynst them. And they left him and went their waye.
13. And they sent vnto him certayne of ye Pharises with Herodes servantes to take him in his wordes.
14. And assone as they were come they sayd vnto him: master we knowe yt thou arte true and carest for no man: for thou consyderest not the degre of men but teachest the waye of God truly: Ys it laufull to paye tribute to Cesar or not?
15. Ought we to geve or ought we not to geve? He vnderstode their simulacion and sayde vnto them: Why tepte ye me? Brynge me a peny that I maye se yt.
16. And they brought. And he sayde vnto them: Whose ys thys ymage and superscripcion? And they sayde vnto him Cesars.
17. And Iesus answered and saide vnto the: Then geve to Cesar that which belongeth to Cesar: and to God that which perteyneth to God. And they mervelled at him.
18. Then came the Saduces vnto him which saye ther is no resurreccion. And they axed hym sayinge:
19. Master Moses wroote vnto vs yf eny mans brother dye and leve his wyfe behinde him and leve no chyldren: that then hys brother shuld take his wyfe and reyse vp seed vnto his brother.
20. Ther were seven brethren: and the fyrst toke a wyfe and when he dyed leeft no seed behynde him.
21. And the seconde toke hir and dyed: nether leeft eny seed. And the thyrde lyke wyse.
22. And seve had her and leeft no seed behynde them. Last of all the wyfe dyed also.
23. In the resurreccio then when they shall ryse agayne: whose wyfe shall she be of them? For seven had her to wyfe.
24. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: Are ye not therfore deceaved and vnderstonde not the scryptures nether the power of God?
25. For when they shall ryse agayne fro deeth they nether mary nor are maryed: but are as the angels which are in heven.
26. As touchynge the deed that they shall ryse agayne: have ye not redde in the boke of Moses howe in the busshe God spake vnto him sayinge: I am the God of Abraham and God of Ysaac and the God of Iacob?
27. He is not the God of the deed but the God of the livynge. Ye are therfore greatly deceaved.
28. And ther came one of the scribes that had hearde them disputynge to gedder and perceaved that he had answered them well and axed him: Which is the fyrste of all the commaundemetes?
29. Iesus answered him: the fyrste of all the comaundementes is. Heare Israel: The Lorde God is one Lorde.
30. And thou shalt love the Lorde thy God with all thy hert and with all thy soule and with all thy mynde and with all thy strength. This is the fyrste commaundement.
31. And the seconde is lyke vnto this: Thou shalt love thy neghbour as thy silfe. Ther is none other commaundement greater then these.
32. And the Scribe sayde vnto him: well master thou hast sayd ye truthe that ther ys one God and that ther is none but he.
33. And to love him with all the herte and with all the mynde and with all the soule and with all the stregth: and to love a mans neghbour as him silfe ys a greater thinge then all burntofferings and sacrifices.
34. And when Iesus sawe that he answered discretly he sayde vnto him: Thou arte not farre from the kyngdome of God. And no man after that durst axe him eny questio.
35. And Iesus answered and sayde teachynge in the temple: how saye the Scribes yt Christ is the sonne of David?
36. for David him selfe inspyred with the holy goost sayde: The Lorde sayde to my Lorde syt on my right honde tyll I make thyne enemyes thy fote stole.
37. Then David hym silfe calleth him Lorde: and by what meanes is he then his sonne? And moche people hearde him gladly.
38. And he sayde vnto them in his doctrine: beware of the Scribes which love to goo in longe clothinge: and love salutacions in ye market places
39. and the chefe seates in the synagoges and to syt in the vppermost roumes at feastes
40. and devoure widowes houses and that vnder coloure of longe prayinge. These shall receave greater dampnacion.
41. And Iesus sat over agaynst the treasury and behelde how the people put money in to the treasury. And many that were ryche cast in moch.
42. And ther cam a certayne povre widowe and she threwe in two mytes which make a farthynge.
43. And he called vnto him his disciples and sayde vnto them: Verely I saye vnto you that this pover widowe hath cast moare in then all they which have caste into the treasury.
44. For they all dyd cast in of their superfluyte: but she of her poverte dyd cast in all that she had eve all her livynge.

== Mark 13 ==
1. And as he went out of the teple one of his disciples sayde vnto him: Master se what stones and what byldynges are here.
2. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: Seist thou these greate byldinges? There shall not be leefte one stone vpon a another that shall not be throwen doune.
3. And as he sate on moute olivete over agest the teple Peter and Iames and Iohn and Andrew axed him secretly:
4. tell vs when shall these thinges be? And what is ye signe whe all these thinges shalbe fulfilled?
5. And Iesus answered the and bega to saye: take hede lest eny man deceave you.
6. For many shall come in my name sayinge: I am Christ and shall deceave many.
7. When ye shall heare of warre and tydinges of warre be ye not troubled. For soche thinges muste nedes be. But the ende is not yet.
8. For ther shall nacion aryse agaynste nacion and kyngdome agaynst kyngdome. And ther shalbe erth quakes in all quarters and famyshment and troubles. These are the begynnynge of sorowes.
9. But take ye hede to youre selves. For they shall bringe you vp to ye counsels and into ye synagoges and ye shalbe beaten: ye and shalbe brought before rulers and kynges for my sake for a testimoniall vnto them.
10. And the gospell must fyrste be publysshed amoge all nacions.
11. But when they leade you and present you toke noo thought afore honde what ye shall saye nether ymagion: but whatsoever is geve you at the same tyme that speake. For it shall not be ye that shall speake but ye holy goost.
12. Ye and the brother shall delyvre the brother to deeth and the father the sonne and the chyldre shall ryse agaynste their fathers and mothers and shall put them to deeth.
13. And ye shalbe hated of all men for my names sake. But whosoever shall endure vnto the ende the same shalbe safe.
14. Moreover whe ye se the abhominacio that betokeneth desolacion wherof is spoken by Daniel the Prophet stonde where it ought not let him that redeth vnderstonde. Then let them that be in Iurie fle to the mountaynes.
15. And let him that is on the housse toppe not descende doune into the housse nether entre therin to fetche eny thinge oute of his housse.
16. And let hym that is in the felde not tourne backe agayne vnto the thinges which he leeft behynde him for to take his cloothes with him.
17. Woo is then to them that are wt chylde and to them that geve soucke in thoose dayes.
18. But praye that youre flyght be not in the wynter.
19. For ther shalbe in those dayes suche tribulacion as was not from the begynninge of creatures which God created vnto this tyme nether shalbe.
20. And excepte yt the Lorde shuld shorten those dayes no ma shuld be saved. But for the electes sake which he hath chosen he hath shortened those dayes.
21. And then yf eny man saye to you: loo here is Christ: loo he is there beleve not.
22. For falce Christes shall aryse and falce Prophetes and shall shewe myracles and wondres to deceave yf it were possible evyn the electe.
23. But take ye hede: beholde I have shewed you all thinges before.
24. Moreover in thoose dayes after that tribulacio the sunne shall wexe darke and the mone shall not geve her light
25. and the starres of heven shall fall: and the powers wich are in heven shall move.
26. And then shall they se the sonne of man comynge in the cloudes with greate power and glory.
27. And then shall he sende his angels and shall gaddre to gedder his electe from the fower wyndes and from the one ende of the worlde to the other.
28. Learne a similitude of ye fygge tree. When his braunches are yet tender and hath brought forthe leves ye knowe that sommer is neare.
29. So in lyke maner when ye se these thinges come to passe: vnderstond that it ys nye even at the dores.
30. Verely I saye vnto you yt this generacion shall not passe tyll all these thinges be done.
31. Heven and erth shall passe but my wordes shall not passe.
32. But of the daye and the houre knoweth no ma: no not the angels which are in heven: nether the sonne him silfe save the father only.
33. Take hede watche and praye for ye knowe not when the tyme ys.
34. As a man which is gone in to a straunge countrey and hath lefte hys housse and geven auctorite to his servautes and to every man hys worke and commaunded the porter to watche.
35. Watche therfore for ye knowe not when the master of ye housse will come whether at eve or at mydnyght whether at the cocke crowynge or in the daunynge:
36. lest yf he come sodenly he shuld fynde you slepynge.
37. And that I saye vnto you I saye vnto all men watche.

== Mark 14 ==
1. After two dayes folowed ester and the dayes of swete breed. And the hye prestes and the Scrybes sought meanes how they myght take hym by crafte and put him to deeth.
2. But they sayde: not in the feast daye leest eny busynes aryse amonge the people.
3. When he was in Bethania in the housse of Simon the leper even as he sate at meate ther came a woma hauynge an alablaster boxe of oyntment called narde that was pure and costly: and she brake the boxe and powred it on is heed.
4. And ther were some that were not content in them selves and sayde: what neded this waste of oyntment?
5. For it myght have bene soolde for more then thre hundred pens and bene geve vnto the poore. And they grudged agaynste hir.
6. And Iesus sayde: let hir be in reest why trouble ye hir? She hath done a good worke on me.
7. For ye shall have poore with you all wayes: and when soever ye will ye maye do them good: but me ye shall not have alwayes.
8. She hath done that she coulde: she came a fore honde to anoynt my boddy to his buryinge warde.
9. Verely I saye vnto you: wheresoever this gospell shalbe preached thorowout the whole worlde: thys also that she hath done shalbe rehearsed in remembraunce of her.
10. And Iudas Iscarioth one of the twelve went awaye vnto the hye prestes to betraye hym vnto them.
11. When they herde that they were gladde and promised yt they wolde geve him money. And he sought howe he myght conveniently betraye him.
12. And the fyrste daye of swete breed when men offer ye pascall lambe his disciples sayd vnto him: where wilt thou that we goo and prepare that thou mayst eate the ester lambe?
13. And he sent forth two of his disciples and sayde vnto them: Goo ye into the cyte and ther shall a man mete you beringe a pitcher of water folowe him.
14. And whither soever he goeth in saye ye to ye good man of ye housse: the master axeth where is the geest chambre where I shall eate ye ester lambe with my disciples.
15. And he will shewe you a greate parlour paved and prepared: there make ready for vs.
16. And his disciples went forth and came to the cyte and founde as he had sayd vnto them: and made ready the ester lambe.
17. And at even he came with the.xii.
18. And as they sate at borde and ate Iesus sayde: Verely I saye vnto you: that one of you shall betraye me which eateth with me.
19. And they begane to morne and to saye to him one by one: ys it I? And a nother sayde: ys it I?
20. He answered and sayde vnto them: It ys one of the.xii. and the same deppeth with me in the platter.
21. The sonne of man goeth as it ys written of him: but woo be to that man by whome the sonne of man is betrayed. Good were it for him if that man had never bene borne.
22. And as they ate Iesus toke breede blessed and brake and gave to them and sayde: Take eate this ys my body.
23. And he toke the cup gave thankes and gave it to them and they all dranke of it.
24. And he sayde vnto them: This is my bloude of the new testament which is sheed for many.
25. Verely I saye vnto you: I will drinke no moore of this frute of the vyne vntyll that daye that I drinke it new in the kyngdome of God.
26. And when they had sayd grace they went out to mount Olyvete.
27. And Iesus sayde vnto them: All ye shalbe offended thorow me this nyght. For it is wrytte: I will smyte ye shepeherd and the shepe shalbe scattered.
28. But after that I am rysen agayne I will goo into Galile before you.
29. Peter sayde vnto him: And though all men shuld be offended yet wolde not I.
30. And Iesus sayd vnto him: Verely I saye vnto ye this daye even in this nyght before ye cocke crowe twyse thou shalt denye me thryse.
31. And he spake boldlyer: no yf I shulde dye wt the I will not deny the. Lyke wyse also sayd they all.
32. And they came into a place named Gethsemani. And he sayde to his disciples: Syt ye here whyll I goo aparte and praye.
33. And he toke with him Peter Iames and Iohn and he began to waxe abasshed and to be in an agonye
34. and sayde vnto the: My soule is very hevy even vnto the deeth tary here and watche.
35. And he went forth a lytle and fell doune on ye grounde and prayed: that yf it were possible the houre myght passe from him.
36. And he sayd: Abba father all thinges are possible vnto the take awaye this cup from me. Neverthelesse not that I will but that thou wilt be done.
37. And he cam and founde the slepinge and sayd to Peter: Simon slepest thou? Couldest not thou watche with me one houre?
38. watche ye and praye leest ye entre into temptacion: ye sprete is redy but ye flessh is weeke.
39. And agayne he went awaye and prayde and spake ye same wordes.
40. And he returned and founde them a slepe agayne for their eyes were hevy: nether wist they what to answere him.
41. And he cam the thyrde tyme and sayd vnto the: slepe hens forth and take youre ease it is ynough. The houre is come beholde ye sonne of man shalbe delyvered into ye hondes of synners.
42. Ryse vp let vs goo. Loo he that betrayeth me is at hande.
43. And immediatly whyll he yet spake came Iudas one of the twelve and with him a greate nomber of people with sweardes and staves from the hye prestes and scribes and elders.
44. And he that betrayed him had geven them a generall toke sayinge: whosoever I do kisse he it is: take him and leade him awaye warely.
45. And assone as he was come he went streyght waye to him and sayd vnto him: master master and kissed him.
46. And they layde their hondes on him and toke him.
47. And one of them that stode by drue out a swearde and smote a servaunt of the hye preste and cut of his eare.
48. And Iesus answered and sayd vnto the: ye be come out as vnto a thefe wt sweardes and with staves for to take me.
49. I was dayly with you in ye temple teachinge and ye toke me not: but yt the scriptures shuld be fulfilled.
50. And they all forsoke him and ranne awaye.
51. And ther folowed him a certeyne yonge man cloothed in lynnen apon ye bare and the yongemen caught him
52. and he lefte his lynnen and fleed from them naked.
53. And they leed Iesus awaye to ye hyest preste of all and to him came all the hye prestes and the elders and the scribes.
54. And Peter folowed him a greate waye of even into the pallys of the hye preste and sat with the servauntes and warmed him sylfe at the fyre.
55. And the hye prestes and all ye counsell sought for witnes agaynste Iesu to put him to death and founde noone.
56. Yet many bare falce witnes agaynste him but their witnes aggreed not to geder.
57. And ther aroose certayne and brought falce witnes agaynste him sayinge.
58. We herde him saye: I will destroye this temple made with hondes and with in thre dayes I will bylde another made with out hondes.
59. But their witnes agreed not to geder.
60. And the hyeste preste stode up amongest them and axed Iesus sayinge: answerest thou nothinge? How is it that these beare witnes agaynst the?
61. And he helde his peace and answered noothinge. Agayne the hyeste Preste axed him and sayde vnto him: Arte thou Christ the sonne of the blessed?
62. And Iesus sayde: I am. And ye shall se the sonne of man syt on the ryght honde of power and come in the cloudes of heven.
63. Then the hyest preste rent his cloothes and sayd: what nede we eny further of witnes?
64. Ye have herde the blasphemy what thinke ye? And they all gave sentence yt he was worthy of deeth.
65. And some begane to spit at him and to cover his face and to bete him with fistes and to saye vnto him arede vnto vs. And the servauntes boffeted him on the face.
66. And as Peter was beneeth in ye pallys ther came one of ye weches of ye hyest preste:
67. and whe she saw Petre warmynge him sylfe she loked on him and sayd: wast not thou also wt Iesus of Nazareth?
68. And he denyed it sayinge: I knowe him not nether wot I what thou sayest. And he went out into ye poorche and the cocke crewe.
69. And a damsell sawe him and agayne beganne to saye to the that stode by this is one of the.
70. And he denyed it agayne. And anone after they that stode by sayde agayne to Peter: suerly thou arte one of the for thou arte of Galile and thy speache agreth therto.
71. And he beganne to cursse and to sweare sayinge: I knowe not this man of whom ye speake.
72. And agayne the cocke krewe and Peter remembred the worde that Iesus sayd vnto him: before the cocke crowe twyse thou shalt deny me thryse and beganne to wepe.

== Mark 15 ==
1. And anone in ye dawnynge the hye prestes helde counsell wt ye elders and ye scribes and ye whoole cogregacion and bounde Iesus and ledde him awaye and delivered him to Pilate.
2. And Pilate axed him: arte thou the kynge of the Iewes? And he answered and sayde vnto him: thou sayest it.
3. And the hye prestes accused him of many thinges.
4. Wherfore Pilate axed him agayne sayinge: Answerest thou nothinge? Beholde how many thinges they lay vnto thy charge.
5. Iesus yet answered never aworde so that Pilate merveled.
6. At that feast Pilate was wont to delivre at their pleasure a presoner: whomsoever they wolde desyre.
7. And ther was one named Barrabas which laye bounde with the that made insurreccion and in the insurreccion comitted murther.
8. And ye people called vnto him and began to desyre accordinge as he had ever done vnto them.
9. Pylate answered them and sayd: Will ye that I lowse vnto you the kynge of the Iewes?
10. For he knewe that the hye Prestes had delyvered him of envy.
11. But the hye prestes had moved the people that he shuld rather delyvre Barrabas vnto them.
12. And Pylate answered agayne and sayd vnto the: What will ye then that I do wt him whom ye call ye kynge of ye Iewes?
13. And they cryed agayne: crucifie him.
14. Pylate sayde vnto them: What evell hath he done? And they cryed ye moore fervently: crucifie him.
15. And so Pylate willinge to content the people lowsed them Barrabas and delyvered Iesus when he had scourged him for to be crucified.
16. And the souddeers ledde him awaye into ye commen hall and called togedder the whoole multitude
17. and they clothed him with purple and they platted a croune of thornes and crouned him with all
18. and beganne to salute him. Hayle kynge of the Iewes.
19. And they smoote him on the heed wt a rede and spat apon him and kneled doune and worsheped him.
20. And when they had moocked him they toke the purple of him and put his awne cloothes on him and ledde him oute to crucifie him.
21. And they compelled one that passed by called Symon of Cyrene (which cam oute of the felde and was father of Alexander and Rufus) to beare his crosse.
22. And they brought him to a place named Golgotha (which is by interpretacion the place of deed mens scoulles)
23. and they gave him to drinke wyne myngled with myrte but he receaved it not.
24. And when they had crucified him they parted his garmentes castinge loottes for them what every man shulde have.
25. And it was aboute ye thyrde houre and they crucified him.
26. And the tytle of his cause was wrytten: The kynge of the Iewes.
27. And they crucified with him two theves: the one on the ryght honde and the other on his lyfte.
28. And the scripture was fulfilled which sayeth: he was counted amonge the wicked.
29. And they that went by rayled on him: waggynge their heedes and sayinge: A wretche that destroyest the temple and byldest it in thre dayes:
30. save thy sylfe and come doune from the crosse.
31. Lyke wyse also mocked him ye hye preestes amonge them selves with the scribes and sayde: He saved other men him sylfe he cannot save.
32. Let Christ the kynge of Israel now descende from the crosse that we maye se and beleve. And they that were crucified with him checked him also.
33. And when the sixte houre was come darknes aroose over all the erth vntyll ye nynthe houre.
34. And at the nynthe houre Iesus cryed with a loude voyce sayinge: Eloi Eloi lamaasbathani which is yf it be interpreted: my God my God why hast thou forsaken me?
35. And some of them that stode by when they hearde yt sayde: beholde he calleth for Helyas
36. And one ran and filled a sponge full of veneger and put it on a rede and gave him to drinke sayinge: let him alone let vs se whether Helyas will come and take him doune.
37. But Iesus cryed with aloude voyce and gave vp the gooste.
38. And the vayle of the temple dyd rent in two peces from the toppe to the boottome.
39. And when the Centurion which stode before him sawe that he so cryed and gave vp the gooste he sayd: truly this man was the sonne of God.
40. Ther were also wemen a good waye of beholdinge him: amonge whom was Mary Magdalen and Mary the mother of Iames the lytle and of Ioses and Mary Salome
41. which also when he was in Galile folowed him and ministred vnto him and many other wemen which came vp with him to Hierusalem.
42. And now when nyght was come (because it was ye even that goeth before ye saboth)
43. Ioseph of Arimathia a noble councelour which also loked for ye kyngdome of God came and went in booldly vnto Pylate and begged ye boddy of Iesu.
44. And Pylate merveled that he was alredy deed and called vnto him ye Centurion and axed of him whether he had bene eny whyle deed.
45. And when he knewe the trueth of the Centurion he gave ye body to Ioseph.
46. And he bought a lynnen cloothe and toke him doune and wrapped him in ye lynnen cloothe and layde him in a tombe yt was hewen oute of ye rocke and rolled a stone vnto the doze of the sepulcre.
47. And Mary Magdalen and Mary Ioses beheld where he was layde.

== Mark 16 ==
1. And when ye saboth daye was past Mary Magdalen and Mary Iacobi and Salome bought odures that they myght come and anoynt him.
2. And erly in the morninge the nexte daye after the saboth day they came vnto the sepulcre when the sunne was rysen.
3. And they sayd one to another: who shall rolle vs awaye the stone from the dore of the sepulcre?
4. And when they looked they sawe how the stone was rolled awaye: for it was a very greate one.
5. And they went into the sepulcre and sawe a yonge man syttinge on the ryght syde cloothed in a longe whyte garmet and they were abasshed.
6. And he sayd vnto the be not afrayed: ye seke Iesus of Nazareth which was crucified. He is rysen he is not here. Beholde the place where they put him.
7. But go youre waye and tell his disciples and namely Peter: he will goo before you into Galile: there shall ye se him as he sayde vnto you.
8. And they went oute quickly and fleed from the sepulcre. For they trembled and were amased. Nether sayd they eny thinge to eny man for they were afrayed.
9. When Iesus was rysen the morow after ye saboth daye he appered fyrst to Mary Magdalen oute of whom he cast seven devyls.
10. And she wet and toolde them that were with him as they morned and weapte.
11. And when they herde that he was alyve and he had appered to hyr they beleved it not.
12. After that he appered vnto two of them in a straunge figure as they walked and went into the country.
13. And they went and toolde it to the remnaunt. And they beleved them nether.
14. After that he appered vnto the eleve as they sate at meate: and cast in their tethe their vnbelefe and hardnes of herte: be cause they beleued not them which had sene him after his resurreccio.
15. And he sayd vnto them: Goo ye in to all the worlde and preache the glad tyges to all creatures
16. he that beleueth and is baptised shall be saved. But he that beleveth not shalbe dampned.
17. And these signes shall folowe them that beleve: In my name they shall cast oute devyls and shall speake with newe tonges
18. and shall kyll serpentes. And yf they drinke eny dedly thinge yt shall not hurte the. They shall laye their hondes on ye sicke and they shall recover.
19. So then when the lorde had spoken vnto them he was receaued into heauen and is set doune on the ryght honde of God.
20. And they went forth and preached every where. And the Lorde wrought with them and confirmed the worde with miracles that folowed.

== Luke 1 ==
1. For as moche as many have take in hand to compyle a treates of thoo thinges which are surely knowen amonge vs
2. even as they declared them vnto vs which from the beginnynge sawe them their selves and were ministers at the doyng:
3. I determined also assone as I had searched out diligently all thinges from the beginnynge that then I wolde wryte vnto the good Theophilus:
4. that thou myghtest knowe the certente of thoo thinges wher of thou arte informed.
5. There was in the dayes of Herode kynge of Iurie a certayne prest named Zacharias of ye course of Abia. And his wyfe was of ye doughters of Aaron: And her name was Elizabeth.
6. Booth were perfect before God and walked in all the lawes and ordinaces of the Lorde that no man coulde fynde fawte with them.
7. And they had no chylde because that Elizabeth was barre and booth were well stricken in age.
8. And it cam to passe as he executed the prestes office before god as his course came
9. (accordinge to the custome of the prestes office) his lot was to bourne incece.
10. And wet into ye teple of ye Lorde and the whoale multitude of ye people were with out in prayer whill the incense was aburnynge.
11. And ther appered vnto him an angell of the lorde stondinge on the ryght syde of the altare of incense.
12. And when Zacharias sawe him he was abasshed and feare came on him.
13. And the angell sayde vnto him: feare not Zachary for thy prayer is hearde: And thy wyfe Elizabeth shall beare ye a sonne and thou shalt call his name Iohn
14. and thou shalt have ioye and gladnes and many shall reioyce at his birth.
15. For he shalbe greate in the sight of the lorde and shall nether drinke wyne ner stronge drinke. And he shalbe filled with the holy goost even in his mothers wombe:
16. and many of the chyldren of Israel shall he tourne to their Lorde God.
17. And he shall goo before him in the sprete and power of Helyas to tourne the hertes of the fathers to the chyldren and the vnbelevers to the wysdom of the iuste men: to make the people redy for the Lorde.
18. And Zacharias sayde vnto ye angell: Wher by shall I knowe this? seinge that I am olde and my wyfe well stricken in yeares.
19. And the angell answered and sayde vnto him: I am Gabriell that stonde in the presens of God and am sent to speake vnto the: and to shewe the these glad tydinges.
20. And beholde thou shalt be domme and not able to speake vntyll the tyme that these thinges be performed because thou belevedst not my wordes which shalbe fulfilled in their season.
21. And the people wayted for Zacharias and mervelled that he taryed in the temple.
22. And whe he cam oute he could not speake vnto them. Wherby they perceaved that he had sene some vision in the temple. And he beckened vnto them and remayned speachlesse.
23. And it fortuned assone as ye tyme of his office was oute he departed home into his awne housse.
24. And after thoose dayes his wyfe Elizabeth coceaved and hyd her sylfe.v. monethes sayinge:
25. This wyse hath God dealte wt me in ye dayes when he loked on me to take from me the rebuke yt I suffred amonge men.
26. And in ye.vi. moneth ye angell Gabriel was sent fro god vnto a cite of Galile named Nazareth
27. to a virgin spoused to a man whose name was Ioseph of ye housse of David and ye virgins name was Mary.
28. And ye angell went in vnto her and sayde: Hayle full of grace ye Lorde is with ye: blessed arte thou amonge wemen.
29. When she sawe him she was abasshed at his sayinge: and cast in her mynde what maner of salutacion yt shuld be.
30. And ye angell sayde vnto her: feare not Mary: for thou hast founde grace wt god.
31. Loo: thou shalt coceave in thy wombe and shalt beare a sonne and shalt call his name Iesus.
32. He shalbe greate and shalbe called the sonne of the hyest. And ye lorde God shall geve vnto him the seate of his father David
33. and he shall raygne over ye housse of Iacob forever and of his kyngdome shalbe none ende.
34. Then sayd Mary vnto ye angell: How shall this be seinge I knowe not a man?
35. And ye angell answered and sayd vnto her: The holy goost shall come apon the and ye power of ye hyest shall over shaddowe ye. Therfore also yt holy thinge which shalbe borne shalbe called ye sonne of god.
36. And beholde thy cosen Elizabeth she hath also conceaved a sonne in her age. And this is hyr sixte moneth though she be called barren:
37. for wt god can nothinge be vnpossible.
38. And Mary sayd: beholde ye honde mayden of ye lorde be it vnto me even as thou hast sayde. And the angell departed from her.
39. And Mary arose in thoose dayes and went into ye mountayns wt hast into a cite of Iurie
40. and entred into the housse of zachary and saluted Elizabeth.
41. And it fortuned as Elizabeth hearde ye salutacion of Mary the babe spronge in her belly. And Elizabeth was filled with the holy goost
42. and cryed with a loude voyce and sayde: Blessed arte thou amonge wemen and blessed is the frute of thy wombe.
43. And whence hapeneth this to me that the mother of my Lorde shuld come to me?
44. For loo assone as the voyce of thy salutacion sownded in myne eares the babe sprange in my belly for ioye.
45. And blessed arte thou that belevedst: for thoose thinges shalbe performed wich were tolde ye from the lorde.
46. And Mary sayde. My soule magnifieth the Lorde.
47. And my sprete reioyseth in god my savioure
48. For he hath loked on the povre degre of his honde mayde. Beholde now from hence forth shall all generacions call me blessed.
49. For he that is myghty hath done to me greate thinges and holye is his name.
50. And his mercy is on them that feare him thorow oute all generacions.
51. He sheweth strength with his arme he scattereth them that are proude in the ymaginacion of their hertes.
52. He putteth doune the myghty from their seates and exalteth them of lowe degre.
53. He filleth the hongry with good thinges: and sendeth awaye the ryche emptye.
54. He remenbreth mercy: and helpeth his servaunt Israel.
55. Even as he promised to oure fathers Abraham and to his seede for ever.
56. And mary aboode with hyr aboute a.iii. monethes and retourned agayne to hyr awne housse.
57. Elizabethes tyme was come that she shuld be delyvered and she brought forth a sonne.
58. And her neghboures and her cosins hearde tell how the lorde had shewed great mercy vpon her and they reioysed with her.
59. And it fortuned ye eyght daye: they cam to circumcise the chylde: and called his name zacharias after the name of his father.
60. How be it his mother answered and sayd: not so but he shalbe called Ihon.
61. And they sayd vnto hyr: Ther is none of thy kynne that is named wt this name.
62. And they made signes to his father how he wolde have him called.
63. And he axed for wrytynge tables and wroote saying: his name is Iohn. And they marvelled all.
64. And his mouthe was opened immediatly and his tonge also and he spake lawdynge God.
65. And feare came on all the that dwelt nye vnto them. And all these sayinges were noysed abroade throughout all ye hyll coutre of Iurie
66. and all they yt herde the layde them vp in their hertes saying: What maner chylde shall this be? And the honde of ye lorde was with him.
67. And his father zacharias was filled with the holy goost and prophisyed sayinge:
68. Blessed be the Lorde God of Israel for he hath visited and redemed his people.
69. And hath reysed vp an horne of salvacion vnto vs in the housse of his servaunt David.
70. Even as he promised by ye mouth of his holy prophetes which were sens ye worlde began
71. That we shuld be saved from oure enemies and from the hondis of all that hate vs:
72. To fulfill the mercy promised to oure fathers and to remember his holy covenaunt.
73. And to performe the oothe which he sware to oure father Adraham
74. for to geve vs. That we delyvered oute of ye hondes of oure enemyes myght serve him with oute feare
75. all the dayes of oure lyfe in suche holynes and ryghtewesnes that are accept before him.
76. And thou chylde shalt be called the Prophet of the hyest: for thou shalt goo before the face of the lorde to prepare his wayes:
77. And to geve knowlege of salvacion vnto his people for the remission of synnes:
78. Through the tender mercy of oure God wherby the daye springe from an hye hath visited vs.
79. To geve light to the that sate in darcknes and in shadowe of deth and to gyde oure fete into the waye of peace.
80. And the chylde grew and wexed stronge in sprete and was in wyldernes tyll the daye cam when he shuld shewe him sylfe vnto the Israhelites.

== Luke 2 ==
1. And it chaunced in thoose dayes: yt ther went oute a comaundment from Auguste the Emperour that all the woorlde shuld be taxed.
2. And this taxynge was ye fyrst and executed when Syrenius was leftenaut in Syria.
3. And every man went vnto his awne citie to be taxed.
4. And Ioseph also ascended from Galile oute of a cite called Nazareth into Iurie: vnto ye cite of David which is called Bethleem because he was of the housse and linage of David
5. to be taxed with Mary his spoused wyfe which was with chylde.
6. And it fortuned whyll they were there her tyme was come that she shuld be delyvered.
7. And she brought forth her fyrst begotten sonne and wrapped him in swadlynge cloothes and layed him in a manger because ther was no roume for them within in the ynne.
8. And ther were in the same region shepherdes abydinge in the felde and watching their flocke by nyght.
9. And loo: the angell of ye lorde stode harde by the and the brightnes of ye lorde shone rounde aboute them and they were soare afrayed.
10. But the angell sayd vnto them: Be not afrayed. For beholde I bringe you tydinges of greate ioye yt shal come to all ye people:
11. for vnto you is borne this daye in the cite of David a saveoure which is Christ ye lorde.
12. And take this for a signe: ye hall fynde ye chylde swadled and layed in a mager.
13. And streight waye ther was with the angell a multitude of hevenly sowdiers laudynge God and sayinge:
14. Glory to God an hye and peace on the erth: and vnto men reioysynge.
15. And it fortuned assone as the angels were gone awaye fro them in to heven the shepherdes sayd one to another: let vs goo eve vnto Bethleem and se this thynge that is hapened which the Lorde hath shewed vnto vs.
16. And they cam with haste and founde Mary and Ioseph and the babe layde in a mager.
17. And when they had sene it they publisshed a brode the sayinge which was tolde them of that chylde.
18. And all that hearde it wondred at those thinges which were tolde the of the shepherdes.
19. But Mary kept all thoose sayinges and pondered them in hyr hert.
20. And the shepherdes retourned praysinge and laudinge God for all that they had herde and sene evyn as it was told vnto them.
21. And when ye eyght daye was come yt the chylde shuld be circucised his name was called Iesus which was named of the angell before he was conceaved in the wombe.
22. And when the tyme of their purificacio (after the lawe of Moyses) was come they brought him to Hierusalem to present hym to ye Lorde
23. (as yt is written in the lawe of the Lorde: every man that fyrst openeth the matrix shalbe called holy to the Lorde)
24. and to offer (as it ys sayde in the lawe of the Lorde) a payre of turtle doves or two yonge pigions.
25. And beholde ther was a ma in Hierusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same ma was iuste and feared God and longed for the consolacion of Israel and the holy goost was in him.
26. And an answer was geven him of the holy goost that he shulde not se deethe before he had sene the lordes Christ.
27. And he came by inspiracion into the temple. And when the father and mother brought in the chylde Iesus to do for him after the custome of the lawe
28. then toke he him vp in his armes and sayde.
29. Lorde Now lettest thou thy seruaut departe in peace accordinge to thy promes.
30. For myne eyes have sene ye saveour sent fro ye
31. Wich thou hast prepared before the face of all people.
32. A light to lighten the gentyls and the glory of thy people Israel.
33. And his father and mother mervelled at those thinges which were spoke of him.
34. And Simeon blessed them and sayde vnto Mary his mother: beholde this chyld shalbe the fall and resurreccio of many in Israel and a signe which shalbe spoke agaynste.
35. And morover the swearde shall pearce thy soule yt the thoughtes of many hertes maye be opened.
36. And ther was a Prophetesse one Anna the doughter of Phanuel of the tribe of Aser: which was of a greate age and had lyved with an husbande. vii. yeres from her virginite.
37. And she had bene a wedowe aboute.iiii. scoore and.iiii. yere which went never oute of the temple but served God with fastinge and prayer nyght and daye.
38. And the same came forth that same houre and praysed the Lorde and spake of him to all that loked for redempcion in Hierusalem.
39. And assone as they had performed all thinges accordinge to the lawe of the Lorde they returned into Galile to their awne cite Nazareth.
40. And the chylde grewe and wexed stronde in sprete and was filled with wysdome and the grace of God was with hym.
41. And his father and mother went to Hierusalem every yeare at the feeste of ester.
42. And when he was.xii. yere olde they went vp to Hierusalem after the custome of the feeste.
43. And when they had fulfilled the dayes as they returned home the chylde Iesus boode styll in Hierusalem vnknowynge to his father and mother.
44. For they supposed he had bene in the copany and therfore came a days iorney and sought him amoge their kynsfolke and acquayntaunce.
45. And when they founde hym not they went backe agayne to Hierusalem and sought him.
46. And it fortuned after.iii. dayes that they founde him in the teple sittinge in the middes of the doctours both hearynge them and posinge them.
47. And all that hearde him mervelled at his wit and answers.
48. And when they sawe him they were astonyed. And his mother sayde vnto him: sonne why hast thou thus dealte with vs? Beholde thy father and I have sought the sorowenge.
49. And he sayde vnto the: how is it yt ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must goo aboute my fathers busines?
50. And they vnderstode not ye sayinge that he spake to them.
51. And he went with them and came to Nazareth and was obedient to the. But his mother kept all these thinges in her hert.
52. And Iesus increased in wisdom and age and in favoure with god and man.

== Luke 3 ==
1. In the fiftenthe yeare of the raygne of Tiberius the Emperoure Pontius Pylate beinge leftenaut of Iurie and Herode beinge Tetrach of Galile and his brother Philip Tetrach in Iturea and in the region of Traconites and Lysanias the Tetrach of Abyline
2. when Anna and Cayphas were the hye prestes: the worde of God came vnto Iohn ye sonne of zacharias in the wildernes.
3. And he came in to all the coostes aboute Iordan preachynge the baptyme of repentaunce for the remission of synnes
4. at it is written in the boke of the sayinges of Esaias ye Prophet which sayeth: The voyce of a cryar in wyldernes prepare the waye of the Lorde make hys pathes strayght.
5. Every valley shalbe fylled and every moutayne and hyll shalbe brought lowe. And crocked thinges shalbe made streight: and the rough wayes shalbe made smoth:
6. and all flesshe shall se the saveour sent of God.
7. Then sayde he to the people that were come to be baptysed of him: O generacion of vipers who hath taught you to flye from the wrath to come?
8. Bringe forth due frutes of repentaunce and begynne not to saye in youre selves we have Abraham to oure father. For I saye vnto you: God is able of these stones to reyse vp chyldren vnto Abraham.
9. Now also ys the axe leyd vnto the rote of the trees: so yt every tree which bringeth not forth good frute shalbe hewe doune and caste in to ye fyre.
10. And the people axed him sayinge: What shall we do then?
11. He answered and sayde vnto them: He that hath two coottes let him parte with him that hath none: and he that hath meate let him do lyke wyse.
12. Then came ther Publicans to be baptised and sayde vnto him: Master what shall we do?
13. And he sayde vnto the: requyre no more then that which ys appoynted vnto you.
14. The soudyoures lyke wyse demaunded of hym sayinge: and what shall we do? And he sayde to them: Do violence to noo ma: nether trouble eny man wrongfully: but be content with youre wages.
15. As the people were in a doute and all men disputed in their hertes of Iohn whether he were very Christ:
16. Ihon answered and sayde to them all: I baptyse you wt water but a stronger then I cometh after me whose shue latchet I am not worthy to vnlouse: he will baptise you with the holy goost and with fyre:
17. which hath his fanne in his hond and will pourge his floore and will gader the corne into his barne: but the chaffe wyll he bourne with fyre that never shalbe quenched.
18. And many other thinges in his exhortacion preached he vnto the people.
19. Then Herode the Tetrach (when he was rebuked of him for Herodias his brother Philippes wyfe and for all the evyls which Herod had done)
20. added this above all and leyd Iohn in preson.
21. And yt fortuned as all the people receaved baptyme (and when Iesus was baptised and dyd praye) that heave was opened
22. and the holy goost came doune in a bodely shape lyke a dove vpo him and a voyce came fro heve sayinge: Thou arte my dere sonne in the do I delyte.
23. And Iesus him silfe was about thirty yere of age when he begane beinge as men supposed the sonne of Ioseph. which Ioseph was the sonne of Heli
24. which was the sonne of Mathat which was the sonne of Levi: which was the sonne of Melchi: which was the sonne of Ianna: which was the sonne of Ioseph:
25. which was the sonne of Matatthias: which was the sonne of Amos: which was the sonne of Nahum: which was the sonne of Esli: which was the sonne of Nagge:
26. which was the sonne of Maath: which was the sonne of Matathias: which was the sonne of Semei: which was the sonne of Ioseph: which was the sonne of Iuda:
27. which was the sonne of Iohanna: which was the sonne of Rhesya: which was the sonne of zorobabel: which was the sonne of Salathiel: which was the sonne of Neri:
28. which was the sonne of Melchi: which was the sonne of Addi: which was the sonne of Cosam: which was the sonne of Helmadam: which was the sonne of Her:
29. which was the sonne of Ieso: which was the sonne of Helieser: which was the sonne of Ioram: which was the sonne of Mattha: which was the sonne of Levi:
30. which was the sonne of Simeon: which was the sonne of Iuda: which was the sonne of Ioseph: which was the sonne of Ionam: which was the sonne of Heliachim:
31. which was the sonne of Melea: which was the sonne of Menam: which was the sonne of Mathathan: which was the sonne of Nathan: which was the sonne of David:
32. which was the sonne of Iesse: which was the sonne of Obed: which was the sonne of Boos: which was the sonne of Salmon: which was the sonne of Naason:
33. which was the sonne of Aminadab: which was the sonne of Aram: which was the sonne of Esrom: which was the sonne of Phares: which was the sonne of Iuda:
34. which was the sonne of Iacob: which was the sonne of Ysaac: which was the sonne of Abraham: which was the sonne of Tharra: which was the sonne of Nachor:
35. which was the sonne of Saruch: which was the sonne of Ragau: which was the sonne of Phalec: which was the sonne of Heber: which was the sonne of Sala:
36. which was the sonne of Cainan: which was the sonne of Arphaxat: which was the sonne of Sem: which was the sonne of Noe: which was the sonne of Lameth:
37. which was the sonne of Mathusala: which was the sonne of Enoch: which was the sonne of Iareth: which was the sonne of Malalehel. which was the sonne of Cainan:
38. which was the sonne of Enos: which was the sonne of Seth: which was the sonne of Adam: which was the sonne of God.

== Luke 4 ==
1. Iesus then full of the holy goost returnyd fro Iordan and was caryed of ye sprete into wildernes
2. and was.xl. dayes tempted of the devyll. And in thoose dayes ate he no thinge. And when they were ended he afterward hongred.
3. And the devyll sayde vnto him: yf thou be the sonne of God comaunde this stone yt it be breed.
4. And Iesus answered hym sayinge: It is writte: man shall not live by breed only but by every worde of God.
5. And ye devyll toke him vp into an hye moutayne and shewed him all the kyngdoms of the worlde eve in ye twincklinge of an eye.
6. And ye devyll sayde vnto him: all this power will I geve ye every whit and the glory of the: for yt is delyvered to me and to whosoever I will I geve it.
7. Yf thou therfore wilt worshippe me they shalbe all thyne.
8. Iesus answered him and sayde: hence from me Sathan. For it is written: Thou shalt honour the Lorde thy God and him only serve.
9. And he caryed him to Ierusalem and set him on a pynacle of the temple and sayd vnto him: Yf thou be the sonne of God cast thy silfe doune from hens.
10. For it is written he shall geve his angels charge over the to kepe the
11. and with there hondis they shall stey the vp that thou dasshe not thy fote agaynst a stone.
12. Iesus answered and sayde to him it is sayd: thou shalt not tempte the Lorde thy God.
13. Assone as the devyll had ended all his temptacions he departed from him for a season.
14. And Iesus retourned by the power of ye sprete in to Galile and there went a fame of him thorowe oute all the regio roude aboute.
15. And he taught in their synagoges and was commended of all men.
16. And he came to Nazareth where he was noursed and as hys custome was went in to the synagoge on the Saboth dayes and stode vp for to rede.
17. And ther was delyvered vnto him ye boke of ye Prophete Esaias. And when he had opened the boke he founde the place where it was written.
18. The sprete of the lorde vpon me because he hath annoynted me: to preache ye gospell to ye poore he hath sent me: and to heale the broken harted: to preache delyverauce to the captive and sight to the blinde and frely to set at lyberte them that are brused
19. and to preache the acceptable yeare of the Lorde.
20. And he cloosed the booke and gave it agayne to the minister and sate doune. And the eyes of all that were in the synagoge were fastened on him.
21. And he began to saye vnto them. This daye is this scripture fulfilled in youre eares.
22. And all bare him witnes and wondred at the gracious wordes which proceded oute of his mouth and sayde: Is not this Iosephs sonne?
23. And he sayde vnto them: Ye maye very well saye vnto me this proverbe: Phisicion heale thy silfe. Whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum do the same here lyke wyse in thyne awne countre.
24. And he sayde verely I saye vnto you: No Prophet is accepted in his awne countre.
25. But I tell you of a truth many wyddowes were in Israell in the dayes of Helias when hevyn was shet thre yeres and syxe monethes when greate fammisshemet was throughoute all the londe
26. and vnto none of them was Helias sent save in to Sarephta besydes Sidon vnto a woma that was a widow.
27. And many lepers were in Israel in the tyme of Heliseus the Prophete: and yet none of them was healed savinge Naaman of Siria.
28. And as many as were in ye sinagoge when they herde that were filled with wrath:
29. and roose vp and thrust him oute of the cite and ledde him eve vnto the edge of the hill wher on their cite was bilte to cast him doune hedlynge.
30. But he went his waye eve thorow the myddes of them:
31. and came in to Capernaum a cyte of Galile and there taught the on the Saboth dayes.
32. And they were astonyed at his doctrine: for his preachige was wt power.
33. And in the synagoge ther was a ma which had a sprete of an vncleane devell and cryed with aloude voyce
34. sayinge: let me alone what hast thou to do with vs thou Iesus of Nazareth? Arte thou come to destroye vs? I knowe the what thou arte eve the holy of God.
35. And Iesus rebuked him sayinge: holde thy peace and come oute of him. And the devyll threwe him in the myddes of them and came oute of him and hurt him not.
36. And feare came on them all and they spake amonge them selves sayinge: what maner a thinge is this? For with auctorite and power he commaundeth the foule spretes and they come out?
37. And ye fame of him spreed abroode thorowoute all places of the countre round aboute.
38. And he roose vp and came oute of ye sinagoge and entred in to Simons housse. And Simos motherelawe was take with a greate fever and they made intercession to him for her.
39. And he stode over her and rebuked the fever: and it leeft her. And immediatly she arose and ministred vnto them.
40. When the sonne was doune all they that had sicke take with divers deseases brought them vnto him: and he layde his hondes on every one of them and healed them.
41. And devils also cam out of many of them crying and saying: thou arte Christ the sonne of God. And he rebuked them and suffered them not to speake: for they knewe that he was Christ.
42. Assone as it was daye he departed and went awaye into a desert place and ye people sought him and came to him and kept him that he shuld not departe from the.
43. And he sayde vnto the: I muste to other cities also preache the kyngdome of God: for therfore am I sent.
44. And he preached in the synagoges of Galile.

== Luke 5 ==
1. It came to passe as the people preased vpon him to heare the worde of God that he stoode by the lake of Genezareth:
2. and sawe two shippes stonde by the lake syde but the fisshermen were gone out of the and were wasshynge their nettes.
3. And he entred in to one of the shippes which perteyned to Simon and prayed him that he wolde thrust out a litell from the londe. And he sate doune and taught the people out of the ship.
4. When he had leeft speakynge he sayde vnto Simon: Launche out in to the depe and let slippe youre nettes to make a draught
5. And Simon answered and sayde to him: Master we have labored all nyght and have taken nothinge. Neverthelater at thy worde I will loose forthe the net.
6. And when they had so done they inclosed a greate multitude of fisshes. And their net brake:
7. but they made signes to their felowes which were in the other ship that they shuld come and helpe the And they came: and filled bothe the shippes that they soncke agayne.
8. When Simon Peter sawe that he fell doune at Iesus knees sayinge: Lorde goo
9. fro me for I am a synfull man. For he was vtterly astonyed and all that were wt him at ye draught of fisshe which they toke:
10. and so was also Iames and Iohn ye sonnes of zebede which were parteners wt Simon. And Iesus sayde vnto Simon: feare not fro hence forthe thou shalt catche men.
11. And they brought the shippes to londe and forsoke all and folowed him.
12. And it fortuned as he was in a certayne cite: beholde ther was a man full of leprosy: and when he had spied Iesus he fell on his face and besought him sayinge: Lorde yf thou wilt thou canst make me cleane.
13. And he strethed forth ye hond and touched him sayinge: I will be thou cleane. And immediatly the leprosy departed from him.
14. And he warned him that he shuld tell no man: but that he shuld goo and shewe him selfe to the Preste and offer for his clensynge accordinge as Moses commaundement was for a witnes vnto them.
15. But so moche the moare went ther a fame abroade of him and moche people cam to geder to heare and to be healed of him of their infirmities.
16. And he kepte him silfe aparte in ye wildernesses and gave him silfe to prayer.
17. And it happened on a certayne daye that he taught: and ther sate the pharises: and docturs of lawe which were come out of all ye tounes of Galile Iurie and Hierusalem. And the power of the Lorde was to heale the.
18. And beholde me brought a man lyinge in his beed which was taken with a palsie: and sought meanes to brynge him in and to laye him before him.
19. And whe they coulde not finde by what waye they might bringe him in be cause of ye prease they wet vp on the toppe of ye housse and let him doune thorowe the tylinge beed and all in the middes before Iesus.
20. When he sawe their fayth he sayde vnto him: man thy synnes are forgeven the.
21. And the Scribes and the Parises begane to thinke sayinge: What felow is this which speaketh blasphemy? Who can forgeve synnes but God only?
22. When Iesus perceaved their thoughtes he answered and sayde vnto them: What thinke ye in youre hertes?
23. Whether is easyar to saye thy synnes are forgeve the or to saye: rise and walke?
24. But that ye maye knowe that the sonne of ma hath power to forgeve synnes on erth he sayde vnto ye sicke of the palsie: I saye to the aryse take vp thy beed and go home to thy housse.
25. And immediatly he rose vp before them and toke vp his beed where on he laye and departed to his awne housse praysinge God.
26. And they were all amased and they lauded God and were filled with feare sayinge: We have sene straunge thynges to daye.
27. And after that he went forthe and sawe a Publican named Levi sittinge at the receyte of custome and sayde vnto him: folow me.
28. And he leeft all roose vp and folowed him.
29. And that same Levi made him a greate feaste at home in his awne housse. And ther was a greate copany of publicans and of other that sate at meate with him.
30. And the Scribes and Pharises murmured agaynst his disciples sayinge: Why eate ye and drinke ye with publicas and synners?
31. Iesus answered and sayde vnto the: They yt are whole nede not of ye phisicion: but they yt are sicke.
32. I came not to call ye rightewes but synners to repentauce.
33. Then they sayde vnto him: Why do the disciples of Iohn fast often and praye and the disciples of ye Pharises also: and thine eate and drinke?
34. And he sayde vnto them: Can ye make ye chyldren of the weddinge fast as longe as ye brydgrome is present with the?
35. The dayes will come whe the brydgrome shalbe take awaye from them: then shall they fast in those dayes
36. Then he spake vnto them in a similitude: No ma putteth a pece of a newe garment in to an olde vesture: for yf he do: then breaketh he the newe and the pece that was taken out of the newe agreeth not wt the olde.
37. Also no ma poureth newe wyne into olde vessels. For yf he do the newe wyne breaketh the vessels and runneth out it silfe and the vessels perisshe:
38. But newe wyne must be poured into newe vessels and bothe are preserved.
39. Also no man yt drinketh olde wine strayght waye can awaye with newe for he sayeth ye olde is plesauter.

== Luke 6 ==
1. It happened on an after saboth that he went thorow the corne felde and that his disciples plucked the eares of corne and ate and rubbed them in their hondes.
2. And certayne of the Pharises sayde vnto them: Why do ye that which is not laufull to do on the saboth dayes?
3. And Iesus answered them and sayde: Have ye not redde what David dyd when he him sylfe was anhungred and they which were with him:
4. how he went into the housse of God and toke and ate the loves of halowed breed and gave also to them which were with him: which was not laufull to eate but for the prestes only.
5. And he sayde vnto them: The sonne of man is Lorde of the saboth daye.
6. And it fortuned in a nother saboth also that he entred in to ye sinagoge and taught. And ther was a ma whose right honde was dryed vp.
7. And ye Scribes and Pharises watched him to se whether he wolde heale on the Saboth daye that they myght fynde an accusacion agaynst him.
8. But he knewe their thoughtes and sayde to the man which had ye wyddred honde: Ryse vp and stonde forthe in the myddes. And he arose and stepped forthe.
9. Then sayde Iesus vnto them: I will axe you a question: Whether is it laufull on the saboth dayes to do good or to do evill? to save lyfe or for to destroye it?
10. And he behelde them all in copasse and sayd vnto ye man: Stretche forth thy honde. And he dyd so and his honde was restored and made as whoole as the other.
11. And they were filled full of madnes and comuned one with another what they myght do to Iesu.
12. And it fortuned in thoose dayes that he went out into a mountayne for to praye and cotinued all nyght in prayer to god.
13. And assone as it was daye he called his disciples and of the he chose twelve which also he called apostles.
14. Simon who he named Peter: and Andrew his brother. Iames and Iho Philip and Bartlemew
15. Mathew and Thomas Iames the sonne of Alpheus and Simon called zelotes
16. and Iudas Iames sonne and Iudas Iscarioth which same was the traytour.
17. And he came doune with them and stode in the playne felde with the company of his disciples and agreate multitude of people out of all parties of Iurie and Ierusalem and from the see cooste of Tire and Sidon which came to heare hym and to be healed of their diseases:
18. and they also that were vexed with foule spretes and they were healed.
19. And all the people preased to touche him: for there went vertue out of him and healed them all.
20. And he lifted vp his eyes apon the disciples and sayde: Blessed be ye poore: for yours is the kyngdome of God.
21. Blessed are ye that honger now: for ye shalbe satisfied. Blessed are ye yt wepe now: for ye shall laugh.
22. Blessed are ye when men hate you and thrust you oute of their companye and rayle and abhorre youre name as an evyll thinge for the sonne of manes sake.
23. Reioyse ye then and be gladde: for beholde youre rewarde is greate in heven. After this manner their fathers entreated the Prophetes.
24. But wo be to you that are ryche: for ye have therin youre consolacion.
25. Wo be to you yt are full: for ye shall honger. Wo be to you that now laugh: for ye shall wayle and wepe.
26. Wo be to you when all men prayse you: for so dyd their fathers to the false prophetes.
27. But I saye vnto you which heare: Love youre enemyes. Do good to the which hate you.
28. Blesse the that course you. And praye for the which wrongfully trouble you.
29. And vnto him that smyteth the on the one cheke offer also ye other. And him that taketh awaye thy goune forbid not to take thy coote also.
30. Geve to every man that axeth of the. And of him that taketh awaye thy goodes axe them not agayne.
31. And as ye wolde that men shuld doo to you: so do ye to them lyke wyse.
32. If ye love the which love you: what thanke are ye worthy of? For the very synners love their lovers.
33. And yf ye do for them which do for you: what thanke are ye worthy of? For the very synners do even the same.
34. If ye lende to them of whome ye hoope to receave: what thanke shall ye have: for the very synners lende to synners to receave as moch agayne.
35. Wherfore love ye youre enemys do good and lende lokynge for nothinge agayne and youre rewarde shalbe greate and ye shalbe the chyldren of the hyest: for he is kynde vnto the vnkynde and to the evyll.
36. Be ye therfore mercifull as youre father is mercifull.
37. Iudge not and ye shall not be Iudged. Condemne not: and ye shall not be condemned. Forgeve and ye shalbe forgeven.
38. Geve and yt shalbe geven vnto you: good measure pressed doune shaken to geder and runnynge over shall men geve into youre bosomes. For with what measure ye mete with ye same shall men mete to you agayne.
39. And he put forthe a similitude vnto the: Can the blynde leade ye blynde? Do they not both then fall into ye dyche?
40. The disciple is not above his master. Every ma shalbe perfecte even as his master is.
41. Why seyst thou a moote in thy brothers eye considerest not ye beame yt is in thyne awne eye?
42. Ether how canest thou saye to thy brother: Brother let me pull out ye moote that is in thyne eye: when thou perceavest not the beame that is in thyne awne eye? Ypocrite cast out ye beame out of thyne awne eye fyrst and then shalt thou se perfectly to pull out the moote out of thy brothers eye.
43. It is not a good tree that bringeth forthe evyll frute: nether is that an evyll tree that bringeth forthe good frute
44. For every tree is knowen by his frute. Nether of thornes gader men fygges nor of busshes gader they grapes.
45. A good man out of the good treasure of his hert bringeth forthe that which is good. And an evyll man out of the evyll treasure of his hert bringeth forthe that which ys evyll. For of the aboundaunce of ye her his mouthe speakethe.
46. Why call ye me Master Master: and do not as I bid you?
47. whosoever cometh to me and heareth my sayinges and dothe the same I will shewe you to whome he ys lyke.
48. He is like a man which bilt an housse: and digged depe and layde the foundacio on a rocke. Whe the waters arose the fludde bet apo that housse and coulde not move yt. For it was grounded apon a rocke.
49. But he that heareth and doth not is lyke a man that with out foundacion bylt an housse apon the erth agaynst which the fludde did bet: and it fell by and by. And ye fall of yt housse was greate.

== Luke 7 ==
1. When he had ended all his sainges in the audience of the people he entred into Capernau
2. And a certayne Centurions seruaunte was sicke and redy to dye whom he made moche of.
3. And when he hearde of Iesu he sent vnto him the elders of the Iewes besechinge him yt he wolde come and heale his servaunt.
4. And they came to Iesus and besought him instantly sayinge: He is worthi that thou shuldest do this for him.
5. For he loveth oure nacion and hath bilt vs a sinagoge
6. And Iesus went with them. And when he was not farre fro the housse the Centurio sent frendes to him sayinge vnto him: Lorde trouble not thy silfe: for I am not worthy yt thou shuldest enter vnder my roffe.
7. Wherfore I thought not my silfe worthy to come vnto the: but saye the worde and my servaunt shalbe whoole.
8. For I lyke wyse am a man vnder power and have vnder me soudiers and I saye vnto won goo: and he goeth. And to another come: and he cometh. And to my servaunt do this: and he doeth it.
9. When Iesus herde this he merveyled at him and turned him about and sayd to the people that folowed him: I saye vnto you I have not founde so greate faith noo not in Israel.
10. And they yt were sent turned backe home agayne and founde the servaunt that was sicke whoole.
11. And it fortuned after that that he went into a cite called Naim and many of his disciples went wt him and moche people.
12. When he came nye to the gate of the cite: beholde ther was a deed man caried out which was ye only sonne of his mother and she was a widowe and moche people of the cite was with her.
13. And when ye lorde sawe her he had compassion on her and sayde vnto her: wepe not.
14. And he went and touched the coffyn and they yt bare him stode still. And he sayde: Yonge man I saye vnto the aryse.
15. And ye deed sate vp and beganne to speake. And he delyvered him to his mother.
16. And ther ca a feare on the all. And they glorified god sayinge: a greate prophet is rysen amoge vs and god hath visited his people
17. And this rumor of him wet forthe throughout all Iurie and thorowout all the regions which lye rounde about.
18. And ye disciples of Iohn shewed him of all these thinges.
19. And Iohn called vnto him.ii. of his disciples and sent the to Iesus sayinge: Arte thou he that shall come: or shall we loke for another?
20. When the men were come vnto him they sayde: Iohn baptiste sent vs vnto ye sayinge: Arte thou he that shall come: or shall we wayte for another?
21. And at yt same tyme he cured many of their infirmites and plages and of evyll spretes and vnto many that were blynde he gave sight
22. And Iesus answered and sayd vnto them: Goo youre wayes and shewe Iohn what thinges ye have sene and harde: how yt the blynde se the halt goo the lepers are clensed the deafe heare the deed aryse to the poore is the glad tydinges preached
23. and happy is he that is not offended by me.
24. When ye messengers of Iohn were departed he began to speake vnto ye people of Iohn What wet ye oute into ye wildernes for to se? went ye to se arede shaken wt ye wynde?
25. But what went ye out for tose? A ma clothed in soofte rayment? Beholde they which are gorgeously apparelled and lyve delicatly are in kynges courtes.
26. But what went ye forth to se? A prophete? Ye I saye to you and moare then a prophete
27. This is he of who it is wrytte: Beholde I sende my messenger before thy face to prepare thy waye before the.
28. For I saye vnto you: a greater prophete then Iohn amoge wemes chyldre is ther none. Neverthelesse one yt is lesse in ye kyngdo of god is greater the he
29. And all the people that hearde and the publicans iustified God and were baptised with the baptim of Iohn.
30. But the pharises and scribes despised ye counsell of god agaynst them selves and were not baptised of him.
31. And ye lorde sayd: Wher vnto shall I lyke the men of this generacion and what thinge are they lyke?
32. They are lyke vnto chyldre sittynge in ye market place and cryinge one to another and sayinge: We have pyped vnto you and ye hahave not daunsed: we have mourned to you and ye have not wept.
33. For Iohn baptist cam nether eatynge breed ner drinkynge wyne and ye saye: he hath the devyll.
34. The sonne of man is come and eateth and drinketh and ye saye: beholde a man which is a glotton and a drinker of wyne a frende of publicans and synners.
35. Yet is wysdome iustified of all her chyldren.
36. And one of the pharises desyred him that he wolde eate with him. And he went into ye pharises housse and sate doune to meate.
37. And beholde a woman in that cite which was a synner assone as she knewe that. Iesus sate at meate in the pharises housse she brought an alablaster boxe of oyntmet
38. and she stode at his fete behynde him wepynge and beganne to wesshe his fete with teares and dyd wipe the with the heares of her heed and kyssed his fete and anoynted them with oyntment.
39. When the pharise which bade him sawe that he spake with in him sylfe sayinge: If this man were a prophete he wolde surely have knowen who and what maner woman this is which toucheth him for she is a synner.
40. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: Simon I have some what to saye vnto ye. And he sayd master saye on.
41. There was a certayne lender which had two detters ye one ought five hondred pence and the other fyfty.
42. When they had nothinge to paye he forgave the boothe. Which of them tell me will love him moost?
43. Simon answered and sayde: I suppose that he to whom he forgave moost. And he sayde vnto him: Thou hast truly iudged.
44. And he turned to the woman and sayde vnto Simon: Seist thou this woman? I entred into thy housse and thou gavest me noo water to my fete but she hath wesshed my fete with teares and wiped the with the heeres of her heed.
45. Thou gavest me no kysse: but she sence ye tyme I came in hath not ceased to kysse my fete
46. Myne heed wt oyle thou dydest not anoynte: but she hath annoynted my fete wt oyntmet.
47. Wherefore I saye vnto the: many synnes are forgeve her for she loved moche. To whom lesse is forgeven the same doeth lesse love.
48. And he sayde vnto her thy synnes are forgeven ye
49. And they yt sate at meate with him beganne to saye within them selves: Who is this which forgeveth synnes also?
50. And he sayde to ye woman: Thy faith hath saved the Goo in peace.

== Luke 8 ==
1. And it fortuned after that that he him sylfe went throughout cities and tounes preachynge and shewinge ye kyngdom of God and the twelve with him.
2. And also certayne wemen which wer healed of evell spretes and infirmities: Mary called Magdalen out of whom went seven devyls
3. and Ioanna ye wyfe of Chusa Herodees stewarde and Susanna and many other: which ministred vnto the of their substaunce.
4. When moch people were gadred to gether and were come to him out of all cities he spake by a similitude.
5. A sower went out to sowe his seede: and as he sowed some fell by the waye syde and it was troden vnder fete and the foules of the ayre devoured it vp.
6. And some fell on ston and assone as it was spronge vp it widdred awaye because it lacked moystnes.
7. And some fell amonge thornes and ye thornes spronge vp with it and choked it.
8. And some fell on good grounde and sproge vp and bare frute an hondred foolde. And as he sayde these thinges he cryed: He that hath eares to heare let him heare.
9. And his disciples axed him sayinge: what maner similitude is this?
10. And he sayde: vnto you is it geven to knowe the secretes of the kyngdom of God: but to other in similitudes that when they se they shuld not se: and when they heare they shuld not vnderstonde.
11. The similitude is this. The seede is ye worde of God.
12. Thoose yt are besyde the waye are they that heare and afterwarde cometh ye devyll and taketh awaye the worde out of their hertes lest they shuld beleve and be saved.
13. They on the stonnes are they which when they heare receave the worde with ioye. But these have noo rootes which for a whyle beleve and in tyme of temtacio goo awaye.
14. And yt which fell amonge thornes are they which heare and goo forth and are choked wt cares and wt riches and volupteous lyvinge and bringe forth noo frute.
15. That in ye good grounde are they which with a good and pure hert heare the worde and kepe it and bringe forth frute with pacience.
16. No man lyghteth a candell and covereth it vnder a vessell nether putteth it vnder ye table: but setteth it on a candelsticke that they that enter in maye se ye lyght.
17. No thinge is in secret yt shall not come abroode: Nether eny thinge hyd that shall not be knowen and come to lyght.
18. Take hede therfore how ye heare. For whosoever hath to him shalbe geve: And whosoever hath not fro him shalbe take even that same which he supposeth that he hath.
19. Then came to him his mother and his brethren and coulde not come at him for prease.
20. And they tolde him sayinge: Thy mother and thy brethren stonde with out and wolde se the.
21. He answered and sayd vnto them: my mother and my brethren are these which heare the worde of God and do it.
22. And it chaunsed on a certayne daye that he went into a shippe and his disciples also and he sayde vnto them: Let vs goo over vnto the other syde of the lake. And they Lanched forthe.
23. And as they sayled he fell a slepe and there arose a storme of wynde in ye lake and they were fylled with water and were in ieopardy.
24. And they went to him and awoke him sayinge: Master Master we are loost. Then he arose and rebuked the wynde and the tempest of water and they ceased and it wexed calme.
25. And he sayd vnto the: where is youre faith? They feared and wondred sayinge one to another: what felowe is this? for he comaundeth bothe the wyndes and water and they obey him?
26. And they sayled vnto the region of ye Gaderenites which is over agaynst Galile.
27. And as he went out to londe ther met him a certayne man out of ye cite which had a devyll longe tyme and ware noo clothes nether aboode in eny housse: but amonge graves.
28. When he sawe Iesus he cryed and fell doune before him and with a loude voyce sayde: What have I to do with the Iesus the sonne of the God moost hyest? I beseche the torment me not.
29. Then he comaunded ye foule sprete to come out of the man. For ofte tymes he caught him and he was bounde with chaynes and kept with fetters: and he brake the bondes and was caryed of the fende into wyldernes.
30. And Iesus axed him sayinge: what is thy name? And he sayde: Legion because many devyls were entred into him.
31. And they besought him yt he wolde not comaunde the to goo out into ye depe.
32. And ther was there by an heerde of many swyne fedynge on an hyll: and they besought him yt he wolde soffre the to enter into the. And he soffred the.
33. Then went the devyls out of the man and entred into the swyne: And the heerd toke their course and ran heedlynge into the lake and were choked.
34. When the herdmen sawe what had chaunsed they fleed and tolde it in the cite and in the villages.
35. And they came out to se what was done: and came to Iesus and founde ye man out of who the devyls were departed sittynge at the fete of Iesus clothed and in his right mynde and they were afrayde.
36. They also wich sawe it tolde the by what meanes he yt was possessed of ye devyll was healed.
37. And all the whole multitude of ye cotrye of the Gaderenites besought him yt he wolde departe from the: for they were taken wt greate feare. And he gate him into the shippe and returned backe agayne.
38. Then the man out of whom the devyls were departed besought him yt he myght be wt him: But Iesus sent him awaye sayinge:
39. Goo home agayne into thyne awne housse and shewe what great thinges God hath done to ye. And he went his waye and preached thorow out all the cite what great thinges Iesus had done vnto him.
40. And it fortuned when Iesus was come agayne that ye people receaved him. For they all wayted for him.
41. And beholde ther came a man named Iairus (and he was a ruler of ye synagoge) and he fell doune at Iesus fete and besought him yt he wolde come into his housse
42. for he had but a doughter only apon a twelve yere of age and she laye a dyinge. And as he went the people thronged him.
43. And a woman havynge an issue of bloud twelve yeres (which had spent all her substance amonge phisicios nether coulde be holpen of eny)
44. came behinde him and touched the hem of his garmet and immediatly her issue of bloud staunched.
45. And Iesus sayde: Who is it that touched me? when every man denyed Peter and they yt were with him sayde: Master the people thrust the and vexe the: and sayest thou who touched me?
46. And Iesus sayd: Some body touched me. For I perceave that vertue is gone out of me.
47. When the woman sawe that she was not hid she came trimblynge and fell at is fete and tolde him before all the people for what cause she had touched him and how she was healed immediatly.
48. And he sayde vnto hyr: Doughter be of good comforte Thy faith hath made the hoale goo in peace.
49. Whyll he yet spake there came one from ye rulers of the synagogis housse which sayde to him: thy doughter is deed disease not the master.
50. When Iesus hearde that He answered the father sayinge: Feare not beleve only and she shalbe made whole.
51. And when he came to ye housse he suffred no man to goo in with him save Peter Iames and Iohn and the father and the mother of the mayden.
52. Every body weept and sorowed for her. And he sayde: Wepe not: for she is not deed but slepeth.
53. And they lewgh him to scorne. For they knew that she was deed.
54. And he thrust the all out and caught her by the honde and cryed sayinge: Mayde aryse.
55. And hyr sprete came agayne and she roose strayght waye. And he commaunded to geve her meate.
56. And the father and the mother of hyr were astonyed. But he warned the that they shuld tell noo man what was done.

== Luke 9 ==
1. Then called he the.xii. to gether and gave them power and auctorite over all devyls and that they myght heale diseases.
2. And he sent them to preache the kyngdome of God and to cure the sick.
3. And he sayd to them: Take nothinge to sucker you by ye waye: nether staffe nor scripe nether breed nether money nether have twoo cootes.
4. And whatsoever housse ye enter into there abyde and thence departe.
5. And whosoever will not receave you when ye go out of that cite shake of the very dust from youre fete for a testimony agaynst them.
6. And they went out and went thorow the tounes preachinge the gospell and healynge every wheare.
7. And Herod the tetrarch herde of all that was done of him and douted because that it was sayde of some that Iohn was rysen agayne from deeth:
8. and of some that Helyas had apered: and of other that one of the olde prophetes was rysen agayne.
9. And Herod sayde: Iohn have I behedded: who then is this of whom I heare suche thinges? And he desyred to se him.
10. And the Apostles retourned and tolde him what great thinges they had done. And he toke them and went a syde into a solitary place nye to a citie called Bethsaida.
11. And ye people knewe of it and folowed him. And he receaved them and spake vnto them of the kyngdome of God and healed them that had nede to be healed.
12. And when ye daye beganne to weare awaye then came the twelve and sayde vnto him: sende ye people awaye that they maye goo into the tounes and villages roundabout and lodge and get meate for we are here in a place of wyldernes.
13. But he sayde vnto them: Geve ye the to eate. And they sayde. We have no moo but fyve loves and two fisshes except we shuld goo and bye meate for all this people.
14. And they were about a fyve thousand men. And he sayde to his disciples: Cause them to syt doune by fyfties in a company.
15. And they dyd soo and made them all syt doune.
16. And he toke the fyve loves and the two fisshes and loked vp to heven and blessed them and brake and gave to the disciples to set before ye people.
17. And they ate and were all satisfied. And ther was taken vp of that remayned to the twelve baskettes full of broken meate.
18. And it fortuned as he was alone prayinge his disciples were wt him and he axed the sayinge: Who saye ye people yt I am?
19. They answered and sayd: Iohn Baptist. Some saye Helyas. And some saye one of the olde prophetes is rysen agayne.
20. He sayde vnto the: Who saye ye that I am? Peter answered and sayde: thou arte the Christ of god.
21. And he warned and commaunded them that they shuld tell no man yt thinge
22. sayinge: that the sonne of man must suffre many thinges and be reproved of the elders and of the hye prestes and scribes and be slayne and the thirde daye ryse agayne.
23. And he sayde to them all yf eny man will come after me let him denye him sylfe and take vp his crosse dayly and folowe me.
24. Whosoever will save his lyfe shall lose it. And who soever shall lose his lyfe for my sake the same shall save it.
25. For what avauntageth it a man to wynne the whole worlde yf he loose him sylfe or runne in domage of him sylfe?
26. For whosoever is ashamed of me and of my sayinges: of him shall the sonne of man be ashamed when he cometh in his awne glorie and in the glorie of his father and of the holy angels.
27. And I tell you of a surety: There be some of the yt stonde here which shall not tast of deeth tyll they se ye kyngdome of god.
28. And it folowed about an.viii. dayes after thoose sayinges that he toke Peter Iames and Iohn and went vp into a moutayne to praye.
29. And as he prayed ye facion of his countenaunce was changed and his garment was whyte and shoone.
30. And beholde two men talked wt him and they were Moses and Helyas
31. which appered gloriously and spake of his departinge which he shuld ende at Ierusalem.
32. Peter and they that were with him were hevy with slepe. And when they woke they sawe his glorie and two men stondinge with him.
33. And it chaunsed as they departed fro him Peter sayde vnto Iesus: Master it is good beinge here for vs. Let vs make thre tabernacles one for the and one for Moses and one for Helyas: and wist not what he sayde.
34. Whyll he thus spake ther came a cloude and shadowed them: and they feared when they were come vnder the cloude.
35. And ther came a voyce out of the cloude sayinge: This is my deare sonne heare him.
36. And assone as ye voyce was past Iesus was founde alone. And they kept it cloose and tolde noo man in thoose dayes eny of those thinges which they had sene.
37. And it chaunsed on the nexte daye as they came doune from the hyll moche people met him.
38. And beholde a man of the copany cryed out sayinge: Master I beseche ye beholde my sonne for he is all that I have:
39. and se a sprete taketh him and sodenly he cryeth and he teareth him that he fometh agayne and with moche payne departeth fro him when he hath rent him and
40. I besought thy disciples to cast him out and they coulde not.
41. Iesus answered and sayde: O generacion with oute fayth and croked: how longe shall I be with you? and shall suffre you? Bringe thy sonne hidder.
42. As he yet was a cominge the fende ret him and tare him. And Iesus rebuked ye vnclene sprete and healed the childe and delivered him to his father.
43. And they were all amased at ye mighty power of God.Whyll they wondred every one at all thinges which he dyd he sayd vnto his disciples:
44. Let these sayinges synke doune into youre eares. The tyme will come when the sonne of man shalbe delivered into the hondes of men.
45. But they wist not what yt worde meant and yt was hyd fro the that they vnderstode yt not. And they feared to axe him of that sayinge.
46. Then ther arose a disputacion amoge the: who shuld be the greatest.
47. When Iesus perceaved ye thoughtes of their hertes he toke a chylde and set him hard by him
48. and sayd vnto the: Whosoever receaveth this chylde in my name receaveth me. And whosoever receaveth me receaveth him yt sent me. For he yt is least amonge you all the same shalbe greate.
49. And Iohn answered and sayde: Master we sawe one castinge out devyls in thy name and we forbade him because he foloweth not with vs.
50. And Iesus sayde vnto him: forbyd ye him not. For he that is not agaynst vs is wt vs.
51. And it folowed when the tyme was come yt he shulde be receaved vp then he set his face to goo to Hierusalem
52. and sent messengers before him. And they went and entred into a citie of the Samaritans to make redy for him.
53. But they wolde not receave him be cause his face was as though he wolde goo to Ierusalem.
54. When his disciples Iames and Iohn sawe yt they sayde: Lorde wilt thou that we comaunde that fyre come doune from heven and consume them even as Helias dyd?
55. Iesus turned about and rebuked them sayinge: ye wote not what maner sprete ye are of.
56. The sonne of ma ys not come to destroye mennes lives but to save them. And they went to another toune.
57. And it chaunsed as he went in the waye a certayne man sayd vnto him: I will folowe the whither soever thou goo.
58. Iesus sayd vnto him: foxes have holes and bryddes of ye ayer have nestes: but the sonne of man hath not where on to laye his heed.
59. And he sayde vnto another: folowe me. And the same sayde: Lorde suffre me fyrst to goo and bury my father.
60. Iesus sayd vnto him: Let the deed bury their deed: but goo thou and preache the kyngdome of God.
61. And another sayde: I wyll folowe the Lorde: but let me fyrst goo byd them fare well which are at home at my housse.
62. Iesus sayde vnto him: No man that putteth his honde to the plowe and loketh backe is apte to the kyngdome of God.

== Luke 10 ==
1. After these thinges the Lorde apoynted other seventie also and sent them two and two before him into every citie and place whither he him silfe wolde come.
2. And he sayde vnto them the harvest is greate: but the laborers are feawe. Praye therfore the Lorde of ye harvest to send forth laborers into his hervest.
3. Goo youre wayes: beholde I sende you forthe as lambes amonge wolves.
4. Beare noo wallet nether scryppe nor shues and salute noo man by the waye.
5. Into whatsoever housse ye enter fyrst saye: Peace be to this housse.
6. And yf ye sonne of peace be theare youre peace shall rest vpon him: yf not yt shall returne to you agayne.
7. And in ye same housse tary still eatinge and drinkinge soche as they have. For the laborer is worthy of his ewarde. Go not fro housse to housse:
8. and in to whatso ever citye ye enter yf they receave you eate soche thinges as are set before you
9. and heale the sicke yt are theare and saye vnto them: the kyngdome of God is come nye vpon you.
10. But into whatsoever citie ye shall enter yf they receave you not goo youre wayes out into the stretes of ye same and saye:
11. even the very dust which cleaveth on vs of your citie we wipe of agaynst you: Not withstondinge marke this that ye kyngdome of God was come nie vpon you.
12. Ye and I saye vnto you: that it shalbe easier in that daye for Sodom then for yt cytie.
13. Wo be to the Chorazin: wo be to ye Bethsaida. For yf ye miracles had bene done in Tyre and Sido which have bene done in you they had a greate whyle agone repeted sitting in heere and asshes.
14. Neverthelesse it shalbe easier for Tyre and Sidon at the iudgement then for you.
15. And thou Capernau which art exalted to heave shalt be thrust doune to hell.
16. He yt heareth you heareth me: and he that dispiseth you despiseth me: and he that dispiseth me despiseth him that sent me.
17. And the sevetie returned agayne with ioye sayinge: Lorde even the very devyls are subdued to vs thorowe thy name.
18. And he sayde vnto them: I sawe satan as it had bene lightenyng faule doune fro heave.
19. Beholde I geve vnto you power to treade on serpetes and scorpions and over all maner power of the enimye and no thinge shall hurte you.
20. Neverthelesse in this reioyse not that ye spretes are vnder youre power: but reioyse be cause youre names are wrytten in heaven.
21. That same tyme reioysed Iesus in ye sprete and sayde: I confesse vnto ye father Lorde of heaven and erth yt thou hast hyd these thynges from the wyse and prudent and hast opened them to the babes. Even so father for soo pleased it the.
22. All thinges are geven me of my father. And no man knoweth who the sonne is but the father: nether who the father is save the sonne and he to who the sonne wyll shewe him.
23. And he turned to his disciples and sayde secretly: Happy are ye eyes which se yt ye se.
24. For I tell you that many prophetes and kynges have desired to se those thinges which ye se and have not sene them: and to heare those thinges which ye heare and have not hearde them.
25. And beholde a certayne Lawere stode vp and tempted him sayinge: Master what shall I do to inheret eternall life?
26. He sayd vnto him: What is written in the lawe? How redest thou?
27. And he answered and sayde: Loue thy Lorde God with all thy hert and with all thy soule and with all thy stregthe and with all thy mynde: and thy neghbour as thy sylfe.
28. And he sayde vnto him: Thou hast answered right. This do and thou shalt live.
29. He willinge to iustifie him silfe sayde vnto Iesus: Who is then my neghbour?
30. Iesus answered and sayde: A certayne ma descended fro Hierusalem into Hierico and fell in to the hondes of theves which robbed him of his raymet and wounded him and departed levynge him halfe deed.
31. And by chaunce ther came a certayne preste that same waye and when he sawe him he passed by.
32. And lykewyse a Levite when he was come nye to the place wet and loked on him and passed by.
33. Then a certayne Samaritane as he iornyed came nye vnto him and when he sawe him had compassion on him
34. and went to and bounde vp his woundes and poured in oyle and wyne and put him on his awne beaste and brought him to a comen ynne and made provision for him.
35. And on the morowe when he departed he toke out two pece and gave them to the host and sayde vnto him. Take cure of him and whatsoever thou spedest moare when I come agayne I will recompence the.
36. Which now of these thre thynkest thou was neighbour vnto him yt fell into ye theves hondes?
37. And he sayde: he that shewed mercy on him. Then sayde Iesus vnto him. Goo and do thou lyke wyse.
38. It fortuned as they wet that he entred in to a certayne toune. And a certayne woman named Martha receaved him into her housse.
39. And this woman had a sister called Mary which sate at Iesus fete and hearde his preachinge.
40. And Martha was combred about moche servinge and stode and sayde: Master doest thou not care that my sister hath leeft me to minister alone? Byd her therfore that she helpe me.
41. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto her: Martha Martha thou carest and arte troubled about many thinges:
42. verely one is nedfull. Mary hath chosen her that good parte which shall not be taken awaye from her.

== Luke 11 ==
1. And it fortuned as he was prayinge in a certayne place: when he ceased one of his disciples sayde vnto him: Master teache vs to praye as Iohn taught his disciples.
2. And he sayd vnto the: When ye praye saye: O oure father which arte in heave halowed be thy name. Thy kyngdome come. Thy will be fulfilled even in erth as it is in heaven.
3. Oure dayly breed geve vs evermore.
4. And forgeve vs oure synnes: For eve we forgeve every man yt treaspaseth vs. And ledde vs not into teptacio. But deliver vs fro evill.
5. And he sayde vnto them: if any of you shuld have a frede and shuld goo to him at mid nyght and saye vnto him: frende lende me thre loves
6. for a frende of myne is come out of the waye to me and I have nothinge to set before him:
7. and he within shuld answere and saye trouble me not the dore is now sheet and my servautes are with me in the chamber I canot ryse and geve them to the.
8. I saye vnto you though he wold not aryse and geve him because he is his frede: yet because of his importunite he wold rise and geve him as many as he neded.
9. And I saye vnto you: axe and it shalbe geven you. Seke and ye shall fynde. knocke and it shalbe opened vnto you.
10. For every one that axeth receaveth: and he that seketh fyndeth: and to him that knocketh shall it be openned.
11. Yf the sonne shall axe breed of eny of you that is a father: wyll he geve him a stone? Or yf he axe fisshe wyll he for a fysshe geve him a serpent?
12. Or yf he axe an egge: wyll he offer him a scorpion?
13. Yf ye then which are evyll canne geve good giftes vnto youre chyldren how moche more shall the father of heaven geve an holy sprete to them that desyre it of him?
14. And he was a castynge out a devyll which was dome. And it folowed when the devyll was gone out the domme spake and the people wondred.
15. But some of the sayde: he casteth out devyls by the power of Belzebub the chefe of the devyls.
16. And other tempted him sekinge of him a signe fro heave.
17. But he knewe their thoughtes and sayde vnto them: Every kingdome devided with in it silfe shalbe desolate: and one housse shall fall vpon another.
18. So if Satan be devided with in him silfe: how shall his kyngdome endure? Because ye saye that I cast out devyls by the power of Belzebub.
19. Yf I by the power of Belzebub caste oute devyls: by whome do youre chyldren cast them out? Therfore shall they be youre iudges.
20. But if I with ye finger of God cast out devyls noo doute the kyngdome of God is come vpon you.
21. When a stronge man armed watcheth his housse: yt he possesseth is in peace.
22. But when a stronger then he cometh vpo him and overcometh him: he taketh from him his harnes wherin he trusted and devideth his gooddes.
23. He that is not with me is agaynst me. And he that gadereth not with me scattereth.
24. When the vnclene sprete is gone out of a man he walketh through waterlesse places sekinge reest. And when he fyndeth none he sayeth: I will returne agayne vnto my housse whence I came out.
25. And when he cometh he fyndeth it swept and garnissed.
26. Then goeth he and taketh to him seve other spretes worsse then himsilfe: and they enter in and dwell there. And the ende of that man is worsse then the begynninge.
27. And it fortuned as he spake those thinges a certayne woman of the copany lyfte vp her voyce and sayde vnto him: Happy is the wombe that bare the and the pappes which gave the sucke.
28. But he sayde: Ye happy are they that heare the worde of God and kepe it.
29. When the people were gadered thicke to geder: he began to saye. This is an evyll nacion: they seke a signe and ther shall no signe be geven them but the signe of Ionas the Prophet.
30. For as Ionas was a signe to the Ninivites so shall ye sonne of ma be to this nacio.
31. The quene of the southe shall ryse at iudgement with the men of this generacio and condempne them: for she came fro the ende of the worlde to heare the wysdome of Salomon. And beholde a greater then Salomon is here.
32. The men of Ninive shall ryse at the iudgement wt this generacio and shall condepne the: for they repented at the preachinge of Ionas. And beholde a greater then Ionas is here.
33. Noo man lighteth a candell and putteth it in a previe place nether vnder a busshell: But on a candelsticke that they that come in maye se ye light.
34. The light of thy body is the eye. Therfore when thine eye is single: then is all thy body full of light. But if thine eye be evyll: then shall thy body also be full of darknes.
35. Take hede therfore that the light which is in the be not darknes.
36. For if all thy body shalbe light havynge noo parte darke: then shall all be full of light even as when a candell doeth light the with his brightnes.
37. And as he spake a certayne Pharise besought him to dyne with him: and he went in and sate doune to meate.
38. When the Pharise sawe that he marveylled yt he had not fyrst wesshed before dyner.
39. And ye Lorde sayde to him: Now do ye Pharises make clene the out side of the cup and of the platter: but youre inwarde parties are full of raveninge and wickednes.
40. Ye foles dyd not he that made that which is without: make that which is within also?
41. Neverthelesse geve almose of that ye have and beholde all is clene to you.
42. But wo be to you Pharises for ye tithe the mynt and rewe and all manner erbes and passe over iudgment and the love of God. These ought ye to have done and yet not to have left the other vndone.
43. Wo be to you Pharises: for ye love the vppermost seates in the synagoges and gretinges in the markets.
44. Wo be to you scribes and pharises ypocrites for ye are as graves which appere not and the men yt walke over the are not ware of the.
45. Then answered one of the lawears and sayd vnto him: Master thus sayinge thou puttest vs to rebuke also.
46. Then he sayde: Wo be to you also ye lawears: for ye lade men with burthens greveous to be borne and ye youre selves touche not ye packes wt one of youre fyngers.
47. Wo be to you: ye bylde the sepulchres of the Prophetes and youre fathers killed the:
48. truly ye beare witnes that ye alowe the dedes of youre fathers for they kylled them and ye bylde their sepulchres.
49. Therfore sayde ye wisdome of God: I will send them Prophetes and Apostles and of them they shall slee and persecute:
50. that the bloude of all Prophetes which was sheed fro the beginninge of the worlde maye be requyred of this generacion
51. from the bloud of Abell vnto the bloud of zachary which perisshed bitwene the aulter and the temple. Verely I saye vnto you: it shalbe requyred of this nacion.
52. Wo be to you lawears: for ye have taken awaye ye keye of knowledge ye entred not in youre selves and them that came in ye forbade.
53. When he thus spake vnto them the lawears and the Pharises began to wexe busye about him and to stop his mouth with many questions
54. layinge wayte for him and sekinge to catche somethinge of his mought wherby they might accuse him.

== Luke 12 ==
1. As ther gadered together an innumerable multitude of people (in so moche that they trood one another) he began to saye vnto his disciples: Fyrst of all beware of the leve of the Pharises which is ypocrisy.
2. For ther is no thinge covered that shall not be vncovered: nether hyd that shall not be knowen.
3. For whatsoever ye have spoken in in darknes: that same shalbe hearde in light. And that which ye have spoken in the the eare eve in secret places shalbe preached even on the toppe of the housses.
4. I saye vnto you my fredes: Be not afrayde of them that kyll the body and after that have no moare that they can do.
5. But I will shewe you whom ye shall feare. Feare him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Ye I saye vnto you him feare.
6. Are not five sparowes bought for two farthinges? And yet not one of them is forgotten of God.
7. Also even the very heres of youre heedes are nombred. Feare not therfore: ye are moare of value then many sparowes.
8. I saye vnto you: Whosoever confesseth me before men eve him shall ye sonne of man confesse also before ye angels of God.
9. And he that denyeth me before men: shalbe denyed before ye angels of God.
10. And whosoever speaketh a worde agaynst ye sonne of ma it shalbe forgeven him. But vnto him yt blasphemeth the holy goost it shall not be forgeven.
11. When they bringe you vnto the synagoges and vnto the rulers and officers take no thought how or what thinge ye shall answer or what ye shall speake.
12. For the holy goost shall teache you in the same houre what ye ought to saye.
13. One of the company sayde vnto hym: Master byd my brother devide the enheritauce with me.
14. And he sayde vnto him: Man who made me a iudge or a devider over you?
15. Wherfore he sayde vnto them: take hede and beware of covetousnes. For no mannes lyfe stondeth in the aboundaunce of the thinges which he possesseth.
16. And he put forth a similitude vnto them sayinge: The groude of a certayne riche ma brought forth frutes plenteously
17. and he thought in himsilfe sayinge: what shall I do? because I have noo roume where to bestowe my frutes?
18. And he sayde: This will I do. I will destroye my barnes and bilde greater and therin will I gadder all my frutes and my goodes:
19. and I will saye to my soule: Soule thou hast moch goodes layde vp in stoore for many yeares take thyne ease: eate drinke and be mery.
20. But God sayde vnto him: Thou fole this night will they fetche awaye thy soule agayne from the. Then whose shall thoose thinges be which thou hast provyded?
21. So is it with him that gadereth ryches and is not ryche in God.
22. And he spake vnto his disciples: Therfore I saye vnto you: take no thought for youre lyfe what ye shall eate nether for youre body what ye shall put on.
23. The lyfe is moare then meate and the bodye is moare then rayment.
24. Considre the ravens for they nether sowe nor repe which nether have stoorehousse ner barne and yet God fedeth them. How moche are ye better then the foules.
25. Which of you with takynge thought can adde to his stature one cubit?
26. Yf ye then be not able to do that thinge which is least: why take ye thought for the remmaunt?
27. Considre the lylies how they growe: They laboure not: they spyn not: and yet I saye vnto you that Salomon in all this royalte was not clothed lyke to one of these.
28. Yf the grasse which is todaye in the felde and tomorowe shalbe cast into the fornace God so clothe: how moche moore will he clothe you o ye endued wt litell faith?
29. And axe not what ye shall eate or what ye shall drinke nether clyme ye vp an hye
30. for all suche thinges the hethen people of the worlde seke for. Youre father knoweth that ye have nede of suche thinges.
31. Wherfore seke ye after the kyngedome of God and all these thinges shalbe ministred vnto you.
32. Feare not litell floocke for it is youre fathers pleasure to geve you a kingdome.
33. Sell that ye have and geve almes. And make you bagges which wexe not olde and treasure that fayleth not in heaven where noo these commeth nether moth corrupteth.
34. For where youre treasure is there will youre hertes be also.
35. Let youre loynes be gerdde about and youre lightes brennynge
36. and ye youre selves lyke vnto men that wayte for their master when he will returne fro a weddinge: that assone as he cometh and knocketh they maye ope vnto him.
37. Happy are those servauntes which the Lorde when he cometh shall fynde wakynge. Verely I saye vnto you he will gerdde him selfe about and make them sit doune to meate and walke by and minister vnto them.
38. And yf he come in the seconde watche ye if he come in the thyrde watche and shall fynde them soo happy are those servauntes.
39. This vnderstonde that yf the good man of the housse knewe what houre ye these wolde come he wolde suerly watche: and not suffer his housse to be broken vp.
40. Be ye prepared therfore: for the sonne of man will come at an houre when ye thinke not.
41. Then Peter sayde vnto him: Master tellest thou this similitude vnto vs or to all men?
42. And the Lorde sayde: If there be any faith full servaut and wise whom his Lorde shall make ruler over his housholde to geve them their duetie of meate at due season:
43. happy is that servaunt whom his master when he cometh shall finde soo doinge.
44. Of a trueth I saye vnto you: that he will make him ruler over all that he hath.
45. But and yf the evyll servaunt shall saye in his hert: My master wyll differre his cominge and shall beginne to smyte the servauntes and maydens and to eate and drinke and to be dronken:
46. the Lorde of that servaunt will come in a daye when he thinketh not and at an houre when he is not ware and will devyde him and will geve him his rewarde with the vnbelevers.
47. The servaut that knewe his masters will and prepared not him selfe nether dyd accordinge to his will shalbe bete with many strypes.
48. But he that knewe not and yet dyd committe thinges worthy of strypes shalbe beaten with feawe strypes. For vnto whom moche is geven of him shalbe moche requyred. And to whom men moche commyt the moare of him will they axe.
49. I am come to sende fyre on erth: and what is my dysyre but that it were all redy kyndled?
50. Not with stondinge I must de baptised with a baptyme: and how am I payned till it be ended?
51. Suppose ye that I am come to sende peace on erth? I tell you naye: but rather debate.
52. For fro hence forthe ther shalbe five in one housse devided thre agaynst two and two agaynst thre.
53. The father shalbe devided agaynst the sonne and the sonne agaynst the father. The mother agaynst the doughter and the doughter agaynst the mother. The motereleawe agaynst hir doughterelawe and the doughterelawe agaynst hir motherelawe.
54. Then sayde he to the people: when ye se a cloude ryse out of the west strayght waye ye saye: we shall have a shower and soo it is.
55. And when ye se the south wynde blow ye saye: we shall have heet and it cometh to passe.
56. Ypocrites ye can skyll of the fassion of the erth and of the skye: but what is ye cause that ye canot skyll of this time?
57. Ye and why iudge ye not of youre selves what is righte?
58. Whill thou goest with thyne adversary to the ruler: as thou arte in the waye geve diligence that thou mayst be delivered fro him least he bringe the to the iudge and the iudge delyver the to the iaylar and the iaylar cast the in to preson.
59. I tell ye thou departest not thence tyll thou have made good ye vtmost myte.

== Luke 13 ==
1. Ther were present at the same season that shewed him of ye Galileas whose bloude Pylate mengled with their awne sacrifice.
2. And Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: Suppose ye that these Galileans were greater synners then all the other Galileas because they suffred suche punisshmet?
3. I tell you naye: but except ye repent ye shall all in lyke wyse perysshe.
4. Or those.xviii. apon which ye toure in Syloe fell and slewe the thinke ye that they were synners above all men yt dwell in Ierusalem?
5. I tell you naye: But excepte ye repent ye all shall lykewyse perisshe.
6. He put forthe this similiiude A certayne man had a fygge tree planted in his veneyarde and he came and sought frute theron and founde none.
7. Then sayde he to ye dresser of his vyneyarde: Beholde this thre yeare have I come and sought frute in this fygge tree and fynde none: cut it doune: why combreth it the grounde?
8. And he answered and sayde vnto him: lorde let it alone this yeare also till I digge rounde aboute it and doge it to se
9. whether it will beare frute: and if it beare not then after yt cut it doune
10. And he taught in one of their sinagoges on ye saboth dayes.
11. And beholde ther was a woma which had a sprete of infirmite.xviii. yeares: and was bowed to gether and coulde not lifte vp hersilfe at all.
12. When Iesus sawe her he called her to him and sayde to her: woman thou arte delyvered from thy disease.
13. And he layde his hondes on her and immediatly she was made strayght and glorified God.
14. And the ruler of the sinagoge answered with indignacion (be cause that Iesus had healed on the saboth daye) and sayde vnto the people. Ther are sixe dayes in which men ought to worke: in them come and be healed and not on the saboth daye.
15. Then answered him the Lorde and sayd: Ypocrite doth not eache one of you on the saboth daye lowse his oxe or his asse from the stall and leade him to the water?
16. And ought not this doughter of Abraham whom Sathan hath bounde loo.xviii. yeares be lowsed from this bonde on the saboth daye?
17. And when he thus sayde all his adversaries were ashamed and all the people reioysed on all the excellent dedes that were done by him.
18. Then sayde he: What is the kyngdome of God lyke? or wherto shall I compare it?
19. It is lyke a grayne of mustard seede which a man toke and sowed in his garden: and it grewe and wexed a greate tree and the foules of the ayer made nestes in the braunches of it.
20. And agayne he sayde: wher vnto shall I lyken ye kyngdome of god?
21. it is lyke leve which a woman toke and hidde in thre busshels of floure tyll all was thorow levended.
22. And he went thorow all maner of cities and tounes teachinge and iorneyinge towardes Ierusalem.
23. Then sayde one vnto him: Lorde are ther feawe that shalbe saved? And he sayde vnto them:
24. stryve with youre selves to enter in at ye strayte gate: For many I saye vnto you will seke to enter in and shall not be able.
25. When the good man of ye housse is rysen vp and hath shett to the dore ye shall beginne to stonde with out and to knocke at the dore sayinge: Lorde lorde open vnto vs: and he shall answer and saye vnto you: I knowe you not whence ye are.
26. Then shall ye begin to saye. We have eaten in thy presence and dronke and thou hast taught in oure stretes.
27. And he shall saye: I tell you I knowe you not whence ye are: departe from me all ye workers of iniquite.
28. There shalbe wepinge and gnasshinge of teth when ye shall se Abraham and Isaac and Iacob and all the prophetes in the kyngdom of God and youre selves thrust oute at dores.
29. And they shall come from the eest and from the weest and from the northe and from the southe and shall syt doune in the kyngdome of God.
30. And beholde ther are last which shalbe fyrst: And ther are fyrst which shalbe last.
31. The same daye there came certayne of the pharises and sayd vnto him: Get the out of the waye and departe hence: for Herode will kyll ye.
32. And he sayd vnto them. Goo ye and tell that foxe beholde I cast oute devyls and heale the people to daye and to morowe and the third daye I make an ende.
33. Neverthelesse I must walke todaye and tomorowe and the daye folowinge: For it cannot be that a Prophet perishe eny other where save at Ierusalem.
34. O Ierusalem Ierusalem which kyllest prophetes and stonest them that are sent to ye: how often wolde I have gadered thy childre to gedder as the hen gathereth her nest vnder her wynges but ye wolde not.
35. Beholde youre habitacion shalbe left vnto you desolate. For I tell you ye shall not se me vntill the tyme come that ye shall saye blessed is he that commeth in the name of the Lorde.

== Luke 14 ==
1. And it chaunsed that he went into the housse of one of ye chefe pharises to eate breed on a saboth daye: and they watched him.
2. And beholde ther was a man before him which had the dropsye.
3. And Iesus answered and spake vnto the lawears and pharises sayinge: is it laufull to heale on the saboth daye?
4. And they helde their peace. And he toke him and healed him and let him goo:
5. and answered the sayinge whiche of you shall have an asse or an oxe fallen into a pitt and will not strayght waye pull him out on the Saboth daye?
6. And they coulde not answer him agayne to that.
7. He put forthe a similitude to ye gestes whe he marked how they preased to the hyest roumes and sayd vnto the:
8. When thou arte bidde to a weddynge of eny man syt not doune in ye hyest roume lest a more honorable man then thou be bidden of him
9. and he that bade bothe him and the come and saye to the: geve this man roume and thou then beginne with shame to take the lowest roume.
10. But rather when thou arte bidden goo and syt in the lowest roume that when he that bade the cometh he maye saye vnto the: frende syt vp hyer. Then shalt thou have worshippe in the presence of them that syt at meate with the.
11. For whosoever exalteth him sylfe shalbe brought lowe. And he yt hubleth him sylfe shalbe exalted
12. Then sayde he also to him that had desyred him to diner: When thou makest a diner or a supper: call not thy frendes nor thy brethre nether thy kinsmen nor yet ryche neghbours: lest they bidde the agayne and a recompence be made the.
13. But when thou makest afeast call the poore the maymed the lame and the blynde
14. and thou shalt be happy for they cannot recompence the. But thou shalt be recompensed at the resurreccion of the iuste men.
15. When one of them that sate at meate also hearde that he sayde vnto him: happy is he that eateth breed in the kyngdome of God.
16. Then sayd he to him. A certayne man ordened a greate supper and bade many
17. and sent his servaunt at supper tyme to saye to them that wer bidden come: for all thinges are now redy.
18. And they all atonce begane to make excuse. The fyrst sayd vnto him: I have bought a ferme and I must nedes goo and se it I praye the have me excused.
19. And another sayd: I hove bought fyve yooke of oxen and I goo to prove them I praye the have me excused.
20. The thyrde sayd: I have maried a wyfe and therfore I cannot come.
21. And the servaunt went and brought his master worde therof. Then was the good man of the housse displeased and sayd to his servaut: Goo out quickly into ye stretes and quarters of the cite and bringe in hidder the poore and the maymed and the halt and the blynde.
22. And the servaut sayd: lorde it is done as thou comaundedst and yet ther is roume.
23. And the lorde sayd to the servaunt: Go out into ye hye wayes and hedges and compell the to come in that my housse maye be filled.
24. For I saye vnto you that none of those men which were bidde shall tast of my supper.
25. Ther went agreate copany with him and he turned and sayde vnto them:
26. If a man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wyfe and chyldren and brethren and sisters more over and his awne lyfe he cannot be my disciple.
27. And whosoever beare not his crosse and come after me cannot be my disciple.
28. Which of you disposed to bilde a toure sytteth not doune before and counteth ye cost whether he have sufficient to performe it?
29. lest after he hath layde ye foundacion and is not able to performe it all yt beholde it beginne to mocke him
30. sayinge: this man beganne to bilde and was not able to make an ende.
31. Or what kynge goeth to make batayle agaynst another kinge and sitteth not doune fyrst and casteth in his mynde whether he be able wt ten thousande to mete him that cometh agaynst him wt.xx thousand.
32. Or els whyll ye other is yet a greate waye of he will sende embasseatours and desyre peace.
33. So lykewyse none of you yt forsaketh not all yt he hath can be my disciple.
34. Salt is good but yf salt have loste hyr saltnes what shall be seasoned ther with?
35. It is nether good for ye londe nor yet for ye donge hill but men cast it out at ye dores. He yt hath eares to heare let him heare.

== Luke 15 ==
1. Then resorted vnto him all ye publicas and synners for to heare him.
2. And the pharises and scribes murmured sayinge: He receaved to his copany synners and eateth with them.
3. Then put he forthe this similitude to the sayinge:
4. What man of you havynge an hundred shepe yf he loose one of thee doth not leve nynty and nyne in the wyldernes and goo after yt which is loost vntyll he fynde him?
5. And whe he hath founde him he putteth him on his shulders with ioye:
6. And assone as he cometh home he calleth to gedder his lovers and neghbours sayinge vnto them: reioyse with me for I have founde my shepe which was loost.
7. I say vnto you yt lyke wyse ioye shalbe in heven over one synner yt repenteth moore then over nynety and nyne iuste persons whiche nede noo repentauce.
8. Ether what woman havynge.x. grotes yf she loose one doth not lyght a candell and swepe ye housse and seke diligently tyll she fynde it?
9. And when she hath founde it she calleth her lovers and her neghbours sayinge: Reioyce wt me for I have founde the groate which I had loost.
10. Lykwyse I saye vnto you ioye is made in ye presence of ye angels of god over one synner yt repenteth.
11. And he sayde: a certayne man had two sonnes
12. and the yonger of them sayde to his father: father geve me my parte of the goodes yt to me belongeth. And he devided vnto them his substaunce.
13. And not longe after ye yonger sonne gaddered all that he had to gedder and toke his iorney into a farre countre and theare he wasted his goodes with royetous lyvinge.
14. And when he had spent all that he had ther rose a greate derth thorow out all yt same londe and he began to lacke.
15. And he went and clave to a citesyn of yt same countre which sent him to his felde to kepe his swyne.
16. And he wold fayne have filled his bely with the coddes that ye swyne ate: and noo man gave him.
17. Then he came to him selfe and sayde: how many hyred servauntes at my fathers have breed ynough and I dye for honger.
18. I will aryse and goo to my father and will saye vnto him: father I have synned agaynst heven and before ye
19. and am no moare worthy to be called thy sonne make me as one of thy hyred servauntes.
20. And he arose and went to his father. And when he was yet a greate waye of his father sawe him and had compassion and ran and fell on his necke and kyssed him.
21. And the sonne sayd vnto him: father I have synned agaynst heven and in thy sight and am no moare worthy to be called thy sonne.
22. But his father sayde to his servautes: bringe forth that best garment and put it on him and put a rynge on his honde and showes on his fete.
23. And bringe hidder that fatted caulfe and kyll him and let vs eate and be mery:
24. for this my sonne was deed and is alyve agayne he was loste and is now founde. And they began to be merye.
25. The elder brother was in the felde and when he cam and drewe nye to ye housse he herde minstrelcy and daunsynge
26. and called one of his servauntes and axed what thoose thinges meate.
27. And he sayd vnto him: thy brother is come and thy father had kylled ye fatted caulfe because he hath receaved him safe and sounde.
28. And he was angry and wolde not goo in. Then came his father out and entreated him.
29. He answered and sayde to his father: Loo these many yeares have I done the service nether brake at eny tyme thy commaundment and yet gavest thou me never soo moche as a kyd to make mery wt my lovers:
30. but assone as this thy sonne was come which hath devoured thy goodes with harlootes thou haste for his pleasure kylled ye fatted caulfe.
31. And he sayd vnto him: Sonne thou wast ever with me and all that I have is thyne:
32. it was mete that we shuld make mery and be glad: for this thy brother was deed and is a lyve agayne: and was loste and is founde.

== Luke 16 ==
1. And he sayd also vnto his disciples. Ther was a certayne rych man which had a stewarde that was acused vnto him that he had wasted his goodes.
2. And he called him and sayd vnto him: How is it that I heare this of the? Geve a comptes of thy steward shippe: For thou mayste be no longer stewarde.
3. The stewarde sayd wt in him selfe: what shall I do? for my master will take awaye fro me ye stewarde shippe. I canot digge and to begge I am ashamed.
4. I woote what to do yt when I am put out of ye stewardshippe they maye receave me into their houses.
5. Then called he all his masters detters and sayd vnto ye fyrst: how moche owest thou vnto my master?
6. And he sayd: an hondred tonnes of oyle. And he sayd to him: take thy bill and syt doune quickly and wryte fiftie.
7. Then sayd he to another: what owest thou? And he sayde: an hondred quarters of wheate. He sayd to him: Take thy bill and write foure scoore.
8. And the lorde comended the vniust stewarde because he had done wysly. For ye chyldren of this worlde are in their kynde wyser then ye chyldren of lyght.
9. And I saye also vnto you: make you frendes of the wicked mammon that when ye shall departe they may receave you into everlastinge habitacions.
10. He that is faithfull in that which is leste ye same is faithfull in moche. And he yt is vnfaithfull in ye least: is vnfaithfull also in moche.
11. So then yf ye have not ben faithfull in ye wicked mamon? who will beleve you in that which is true?
12. And yf ye have not bene faithfull in another manes busines: who shall geve you youre awne?
13. No servaunt can serve.ii. masters for other he shall hate ye one and love ye other or els he shall lene to the one and despyse the other. Ye can not serve God and mammon.
14. All these thinges herde the pharises also which were coveteous and they mocked him.
15. And he sayd vnto the: Ye are they which iustifie youre selves before me: but God knoweth youre hertes. For ye which is highlie estemed amoge me is abhominable in yt sight of god
16. The lawe and the Prophetes raygned vntyll the tyme of Iohn: and sence that tyme the kyngdom of God is preached and every man stryveth to goo in.
17. Soner shall heven and erth perisshe then one tytle of the lawe shall perisshe.
18. Whosoever forsaketh his wyfe and marieth another breaketh matrimony. And every man which marieth her that is devorsed from her husbande committeth advoutry also.
19. Ther was a certayne ryche man which was clothed in purple and fyne bysse and fared deliciously every daye.
20. And ther was a certayne begger named Lazarus whiche laye at his gate full of soores
21. desyringe to be refresshed with the cromes whiche fell from the ryche manes borde. Neverthelesse the dogges came and licked his soores.
22. And yt fortuned that the begger dyed and was caried by the angelles into Abrahas bosome. The riche man also died and was buried.
23. And beinge in hell in tormetes he lyfte vp his eyes and sawe Abraham a farre of and Lazarus in his bosome
24. and he cryed and sayd: father Abraham have mercy on me and sende Lazarus that he maye dippe the tippe of his fynger in water and cole my tonge: for I am tourmented in this flame.
25. But Abraha sayd vnto him Sonne remembre that thou in thy lyfe tyme receavedst thy pleasure and contrary wyse Lazarus payne. Now therfore is he comforted and thou art punysshed.
26. Beyonde all this bitwene you and vs ther is a greate space set so that they which wolde goo from thence to you cannot: nether maye come from thence to vs.
27. Then he sayd: I praye the therfore father send him to my fathers housse.
28. For I have fyve brethren: for to warne the left they also come into this place of tourmet.
29. Abraha sayd vnto him: they have Moses and the Prophetes let them heare them.
30. And he sayd: naye father Abraham but yf one came vnto the from the ded they wolde repent.
31. He sayd vnto him: If they heare not Moses and ye prophetes nether will they beleve though one roose from deeth agayne.

== Luke 17 ==
1. Then sayde he to ye disciples it can not be avoyded but that offences will come. Neverthelesse wo be to him thorow whom they come.
2. It were better for him that a mylstone were hanged aboute his necke and that he were cast into ye see then that he shuld offende one of this lytleons.
3. Take hede to youre selves. If thy brother trespas agaynst the rebuke him:
4. and yf he repent forgeve him. And though he sinne agest ye.vii. tymes in a daye and seve tymes in a daye tourne agayne to ye sayinge: it repenteth me forgeve him
5. And the apostles sayde vnto the Lorde: increase oure faith.
6. And the Lorde sayde: yf ye had faith lyke a grayne of mustard sede and shuld saye vnto this sycamine tree plucke thy selfe vp by the rootes and plant thy selfe in the see: he should obey you.
7. Who is it of you yf he had a servaute plowinge or fedinge catell that wolde saye vnto him when he were come from the felde Goo quickly and syt doune to meate:
8. and wolde not rather saye to him dresse wherwith I maye sup and gyrde vp thy selfe and serve me tyll I have eaten and dronken: and afterwarde eate thou and drinke thou?
9. Doeth he thanke that servaunt because he dyd that which was commaunded vnto him? I trowe not.
10. Soo lyke wyse ye when ye have done all thoose thinges which are commaunded you: saye we are vnprofitable servautes. We have done: ye which was oure duetye to do.
11. And it chaunsed as he went to Ierusalem that he passed thorow Samaria and Galile.
12. And as he entred into a certayne toune ther met him ten men yt were lepers. Which stode a farre of
13. and put forth their voyces and sayde: Iesu master have mercy on vs.
14. When he sawe the he sayde vnto them: Goo and shewe youre selves to the prestes. And it chaunsed as they went they were clensed.
15. And one of them when he sawe that he was clensed turned backe agayne and with a loude voyce praysed God
16. and fell doune on his face at his fete and gave him thankes. And the same was a Samaritane.
17. And Iesus answered and sayde: are ther not ten clensed? But where are those nyne?
18. Ther are not founde that returned agane to geve God prayse save only this straunger.
19. And he sayde vnto him: aryse and goo thy waye thy faith hath made the whoale.
20. When he was demaunded of ye pharises when the kyngdome of God shuld come: he answered them and sayde: The kyngdome of God cometh not with waytinge for.
21. Nether shall men saye: Loo here loo there. For beholde the kyngdome of God is with in you.
22. And he sayde vnto the disciples: The dayes will come when ye shall desyre to se one daye of the sonne of man and ye shall not se it.
23. And they shall saye to you: Se here Se there. Goo not after them nor folowe them
24. for as the lyghtenynge that apereth out of the one parte of the heven and shyneth vnto the other parte of heven: Soo shall the sonne of man be in his dayes.
25. But fyrst must he suffre many thinges and be refused of this nacion.
26. As it happened in ye tyme of Noe: So shall it be in the tyme of the sonne of man.
27. They ate they dranke they maryed wyves and were maryed even vnto yt same daye yt Noe went into ye arke: and ye floud cam and destroyed the all.
28. Lykewyse also as it chaunsed in the dayes of Lot. They ate they dranke they bought they solde they planted they bilte.
29. And even the same daye that Lot went out of Zodom it rayned fyre and brymstone from heven and destroyed them all.
30. After these ensamples shall it be in the daye when the sonne of man shall appere.
31. At that daye he that is on the housse toppe and his stuffe in the housse: let him not come doune to take it out. And lykewyse let not him that is in the feldes turne backe agayne to that he lefte behynde.
32. Remember Lottes wyfe.
33. Whosoever will goo about to save his lyfe shall loose it: And whosoever shall loose his lyfe shall save it.
34. I tell you: In that nyght ther shalbe two in one beed the one shalbe receaved and the other shalbe forsaken.
35. Two shalbe also a grindynge to gedder: the one shalbe receaved and the other forsaken.
36. And they answered and sayde to him: wheare Lorde? And he sayd vnto the: whersoever ye body shalbe thyther will the egles resoorte.
37. 

== Luke 18 ==
1. And he put forth a similitude vnto the signifyinge that men ought alwayes to praye and not to be wery
2. sayinge: Ther was a Iudge in a certayne cite which feared not god nether regarded man.
3. And ther was a certayne wedowe in the same cite which came vnto him sayinge: avenge me of myne adversary.
4. And he wolde not for a whyle. But afterwarde he sayd vnto him selfe: though I feare not God nor care for man
5. yet because this wedowe troubleth me I will avenge her lest at the laste she come and hagge on me.
6. And the lorde sayd: heare what the vnrightewes Iudge sayeth.
7. And shall not god avenge his electe which crye daye and nyght vnto him ye though he differre them?
8. I tell you he will avenge them and that quickly. Neverthelesse when the sonne of man cometh suppose ye that he shall fynde faithe on the erthe.
9. And he put forthe this similitude vnto certayne which trusted in the selves yt they were perfecte and despysed other.
10. Two men went vp into ye teple to praye: ye one a pharise and the other a publican.
11. The pharise stode and prayed thus wt him selfe. God I thanke the yt I am not as other men are extorsioners vniuste advoutrers or as this publican.
12. I fast twyse in ye weke. I geve tythe of all that I possesse.
13. And the publican stode afarre of and wolde not lyfte vp his eyes to heven but smote his brest sayinge: God be mercyfull to me a synner.
14. I tell you: this ma departed hoe to his housse iustified moore then the other. For every man that exalteth him selfe shalbe brought low: And he yt hubleth him selfe shalbe exalted
15. They brought vnto him also babes yt he shuld touche the. When his disciples sawe that they rebuked the.
16. But Iesus called the vnto him and sayde: Suffre chyldren to come vnto me and forbidde the not. For of soche is ye kyngdome of God.
17. Verely I saye vnto you: whosoever receaveth not the kyngdome of God as a chylde: he shall not enter therin.
18. And a certayne ruler axed him sayinge: Good Master: what ought I to do to obtayne eternall lyfe?
19. Iesus sayd vnto him: Why callest thou me good? No man is good save God only.
20. Thou knowest ye comaundmentes: Thou shalt not commit advoutry: thou shalt not kyll: thou shalt not steale: thou shalt not beare false witnes: Honoure thy father and thy mother.
21. And he sayde: all these have I kept from my youthe.
22. When Iesus hearde that he sayde vnto him: Yet lackest thou one thinge. Sell all that thou hast and distribute it vnto the poore and thou shalt have treasure in heven and come and folowe me.
23. When he heard that he was hevy: for he was very ryche.
24. When Iesus sawe him morne he sayde: with what difficulte shall they that have ryches enter into the kyngdome of God:
25. it is easyer for a camell to goo thorow a nedles eye then for a ryche man to enter into the kyngdome of God.
26. Then sayde they that hearde that: And who shall then be saved?
27. And he sayde: Thinges which are vnpossible with men are possible with God.
28. Then Peter sayde: Loo we have lefte all and have folowed the.
29. And he sayde vnto them: Verely I saye vnto you ther is noo man that leaveth housse other father and mother other brethren or wyfe or chyldren for the kyngdome of Goddes sake
30. which same shall not receave moche moore in this worlde: and in the worlde to come lyfe everlastinge.
31. He toke vnto him twelve and sayde vnto them. Beholde we go vp to Ierusalem and all shalbe fulfilled that are written by ye Prophetes of the sonne of man.
32. He shalbe delivered vnto the gentils and shalbe mocked and shalbe despytfully entreated and shalbe spetted on:
33. and when they have scourged him they will put him to deeth and the thyrde daye he shall aryse agayne.
34. But they vnderstode none of these thinges. And this sayinge was hid fro them. And they perceaved not the thinges which were spoken.
35. And it came to passe as he was come nye vnto Hierico a certayne blynde man sate by the waye syde begginge.
36. And when he hearde the people passe by he axed what it meant.
37. And they sayde vnto him yt Iesus of Nazareth passed by.
38. And he cryed sayinge: Iesus ye sonne of David have thou mercy on me.
39. And they which went before rebuked him that he shuld holde his peace. But he cryed so moche the moare thou sonne of David have mercy on me.
40. And Iesus stode styll and commaunded him to be brought vnto him. And when he was come neare he axed him
41. sayinge: What wilt thou that I do vnto the? And he sayde: Lorde yt I maye receave my sight.
42. Iesus sayde vnto him: receave thy sight: thy faith hath saved the.
43. And immediatly he sawe and folowed him praysinge God. And all the people when they sawe it gave laude to God.

== Luke 19 ==
1. And he entred in and went thorow Hierico.
2. And beholde ther was a ma named Zacheus which was a ruler amoge the Publicans and was riche also.
3. And he made meanes to se Iesus what he shuld be: and coulde not for the preace because he was of a lowe stature.
4. Wherfore he ran before and asceded vp into a wilde fygge tree to se him: for he shulde come that same waye.
5. And when Iesus cam to the place he loked vp and sawe him and sayd vnto him: zache attonce come doune for to daye I must abyde at thy housse.
6. And he came doune hastelye and receaved him ioyfully.
7. And when they sawe that they all groudged sayinge: He is gone in to tary with a man that is a synner.
8. And zache stode forth and sayd vnto ye Lorde: beholde Lorde ye haulfe of my gooddes I geve to the povre and if I have done eny ma wroge I will restore him fower folde.
9. And Iesus sayd to him: this daye is healthe come vnto this housse for as moche as it also is become the chylde of Abraha.
10. For the sonne of ma is come to seke and to save that which was looste.
11. As they hearde these thinges he added ther to a similitude be cause he was nye to Hierusalem and because also they thought that the kyngdome of God shuld shortely appere.
12. He sayde therfore: a certayne noble man wet into a farre countre to receave him a kyngdome and then to come agayne.
13. And he called his ten servauntes and delyvered them ten pounde sayinge vnto them: by and sell till I come.
14. But his citesens hated him and sent messengers after him sayinge: We will not have this man to raygne over vs.
15. And it came to passe when he was come agayne and had receaved his kyngdome he comaunded these servautes to be called to him (to whom he gave his money) to witt what every man had done.
16. Then came ye fyrst sayinge: Lorde thy pounde hath encreased ten poude.
17. And he sayde vnto him: Well good servaute because thou wast faithfull in a very lytell thynge take thou auctorite over ten cities.
18. And the other came sayinge: Lorde thy poude hath encreased fyve pounde.
19. And to ye same he sayde: and be thou also ruler ouer fyve cities.
20. And the thyrde came and sayde: Lorde beholde here thy pounde which I have kepte in a napkyn
21. for I feared the because thou arte a strayte man: thou takest vp that thou laydest not doune and repest that thou dyddest not sowe.
22. And he sayde vnto him: Of thine awne mouth iudge I the thou evyll servaunt. knewest thou that I am a strayte man takinge vp that I layde not doune and repinge that I dyd not sowe?
23. Wherfore then gavest not thou my money into the banke that at my cominge I might have required myne awne with vauntage?
24. And he sayde to them that stode by: take fro him that pounde and geve it him that hath ten poude.
25. And they sayd vnto him: Lorde he hath ten pounde.
26. I saye vnto you that vnto all the that have it shalbe geve: and from him yt hath not eve that he hath shalbe taken from him.
27. Moreover those myne enemys which wolde not that I shuld raigne over them bringe hidder and slee them before me.
28. And when he had thus spoken he proceded forthe before a ssendinge vp to Ierusalem.
29. And it fortuned when he was come nye to Bethphage and Bethany besydes moute olivete he sent two of his disciples
30. sayinge: Goo ye in to the toune which is over agaynste you. In the which assone as ye are come ye shall finde a colte tyed wheron yet never man sate. Lowse him and bringe him hider.
31. And if eny man axe you why that ye loowse him: thus saye vnto him ye lorde hath nede of him.
32. They that were sent went their waye and founde eve as he had sayde vnto the.
33. And as they were aloosinge ye coolte the owners sayde vnto the: why lowse ye ye coolte?
34. And they sayde: for ye Lorde hath nede of him.
35. And they brought him to Iesus. And they cast their raymet on ye colte and set Iesus thero.
36. And as he wet they spredde their clothes in ye waye.
37. And when he was now come wheare he shuld goo doune fro the moute olivete ye whole multitude of ye disciples began to reioyce and to lawde God with a loude voyce for all ye miracles yt they had sene
38. sayinge: Blessed be the kynge that cometh in the name of the Lorde: peace in heave and glory in the hyest.
39. And some of ye Pharises of the copany sayde vnto him: Master rebuke thy disciples.
40. He answered and sayde vnto the: I tell you yf these shuld holde their peace the stones wold crye.
41. And when he was come neare he behelde the citie and wept on it
42. sayinge: Yf thou haddest dest knowen those thinges which belonge vn thy peace eve at this thy tyme. But now are they hydde from thyne eyes.
43. For the dayes shall come vpo the that thy enemys shall cast a banke aboute the and copasse the rounde and kepe the in on every syde
44. and make the even with the grounde with thy chyldren which are in the. And they shall not leve in the one stone vpo another because thou knewest not the tyme of thy visitacion.
45. And he went in to the temple and begane to cast out them that solde therin and them that bought
46. sayinge vnto them yt is written: my housse is the housse of prayer: but ye have made it a den of theves.
47. And he taught dayly in the temple. The hye Prestes and the Scribes and the chefe of the people went about to destroye him:
48. but coulde not finde what to do. For all the people stacke by him and gave him audience.

== Luke 20 ==
1. And yt fortuned in one of those dayes as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospell: the hye prestes and the scribes came with the elders
2. and spake vnto him sayinge. Tell vs by what auctorite thou doest these thinges? Ether who is he yt gave ye this auctorite?
3. He answered and saide vnto the: I also will axe you a questio and answer me.
4. The baptyme of Iohn: was it from heaven or of men?
5. And they thought with in them selves sayinge: yf we shall saye from heave: he will saye: why then beleved ye him not?
6. But and yf we shall saye of men all ye people will stone vs. For they be persuaded that Ihon is a Prophet.
7. And they answered that they coulde not tell whence it was.
8. And Iesus sayde vnto them: nether tell I you by what auctorite I do these thinges.
9. Then begane he to put forthe to the people this similitude. A certayne man planted a vyneyarde and let it forthe to fermers and went him selfe into a straunge countre for a greate season.
10. And when the tyme was come he sent a servaut to his tennauntes that they shuld geve him of the frutes of the vyneyarde. And the tennauntes dyd bet him and sent him awaye empty.
11. And agayne he sent yet another servaunt. And they dyd bet him and foule entreated him also and sent him awaye emptye.
12. Moreover he sent the thyrde to and him they wouded and cast out.
13. Then sayde the lorde of the vyneyarde: what shall I do? I will sende my deare sonne him peradventure they will reverence when they se him.
14. But when the fermers sawe him they thought in them selves sayinge: this is the heyre come let vs kyll him that the inheritaunce maye be oures.
15. And they cast him out of the vyneyarde and kylled him. Now what shall the Lorde of the vyneyarde do vnto them?
16. He will come and destroye those fermers and will let out his vyneyarde to other. When they hearde that they sayde: God forbyd.
17. And he behelde them and sayde: what meaneth this then yt is wrytten: The stone that the bylders refused the same is made ye heed corner stone?
18. whosoever stomble at that stone shalbe broken: but on whosoever it faul vpon it wyll grynde him to powder.
19. And the hye Prestes and the Scribes the same howre went about to laye hondes on him but they feared the people. For they perceaved that he had spoken this similitude agaynst them.
20. And they watched him and sent forth spies which shuld fayne them selves perfecte to take him in his wordes and to delyvre him vnto the power and auctorite of the debite.
21. And they axed him sayinge: Master we knowe that thou sayest and teachest ryght nother cosiderest thou eny manes degre but teachest the waye of God truly.
22. Ys it laufull for vs to geve Cesar tribute or no?
23. He perceaved their craftynes and sayde vnto them: why tept ye me?
24. Shewe me a peny. Whose ymage and superscripcio hath it? They answered and sayde: Cesars.
25. And he sayde vnto them: Geve then vnto Cesar that which belongeth vnto Cesar: and to God that which pertayneth to God.
26. And they coulde not reprove his sayinge before the people. But they marvayled at his answer and helde their peace.
27. Then came to him certayne of the Saduces which denye that ther is eny resurreccio. And they axed him
28. sayinge: Master Moses wrote vnto vs if eny mannes brother dye havinge a wyfe and the same dye with out yssue: that then his brother shuld take his wyfe and reyse vp seede vnto his brother.
29. Ther were seven brethren and the fyrste toke a wyfe and dyed with out children.
30. And the seconde toke the wyfe and he dyed chyldlesse.
31. And the thyrde toke her and in lyke wyse the resydue of the seven and leeft no chyldren be hynde them and dyed.
32. Last of all the woma dyed also.
33. Now at the resurreccio whose wyfe of them shall she be? For seven had her to wyfe.
34. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them. The chyldre of this worlde mary wyves and are maryed
35. but they which shalbe made worthy to enioye that worlde and the resurreccion from deeth nether mary wyves nether are maryed
36. nor yet can dye eny moare. For they are equall vnto the angels: and are the sonnes of God in as moche as they are the chyldre of the resurreccion.
37. And that the deed shall ryse agayne even Moses signified besydes the busshe when he sayde: the Lorde God of Adraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Iacob.
38. For he is not the God of the deed but of them which live. For all live in him.
39. Then certayne of the Pharises answered and sayde: Master thou hast well sayde.
40. And after that durst they not axe him eny question at all.
41. Then sayde he vnto them: how saye they that Christ is Davids sonne?
42. And David him selfe sayth in the boke of the Psalmes: The Lorde sayde vnto my Lorde syt on my right honde
43. tyll I make thine enemys thy fothe stole.
44. Seinge David calleth him Lorde: How is he then his sonne.
45. Then in the audience of all the people he sayde vnto his disciples
46. beware of the Scribes which desyre to goo in longe clothinge: and love gretynges in the markets and the hyest seates in the synagoges and chefe roumes at feastes
47. which devoure widdowes houses and that vnder a coloure of longe prayinge: the same shall receave greater damnacion.

== Luke 21 ==
1. As he behelde he sawe the ryche men how they cast in their offeringes into the treasury.
2. And he sawe also a certayne povre widdowe which cast in thyther two mites.
3. And he sayde: of a trueth I saye vnto you this poore wyddowe hath put in moare then they all.
4. For they all have of their superfluyte added vnto the offerynge of God: but she of her penury hath cast in all the substaunce that she had.
5. As some spake of the teple how it was garnesshed with goodly stones and iewels he sayde.
6. The dayes will come whe of these thynges which ye se shall not be lefte stone apon stone that shall not be throwen doune.
7. And they axed him sayinge: Master whe shall these thinges be and what signe will therbe whe suche thinges shall come to passe.
8. And he sayd: take hede that ye be not deceaved. For many will come in my name saying: I am he: and the tyme draweth neare. Folowe ye not them therfore.
9. But when ye heare of warre and of dissencion: be not afrayd. For these thinges must fyrst come: but the ende foloweth not by and by.
10. Then sayd he vnto the: Nacion shall ryse agaynst nacion and kingdom agaynst kyngdome
11. and greate erthquakes shall be in all quarters and honger and pestilence: and fearfull thinges. And greate signes shall therbe from heven.
12. But before all these they shall laye their hondes on you and persecute you delyueringe you vp to the sinagoges and into preson and bringe you before kynges and rulers for my names sake.
13. And this shall chaunce you for a testimoniall.
14. Let it sticke therfore faste in youre hertes not once to stody before what ye shall answere:
15. for I will geve you a mouth and wisdome where agaynste all youre adversarys shall not be able to speake nor resist.
16. Ye and ye shalbe betrayed of youre fathers and mothers and of youre brethren and kynsmen and lovers aud some of you shall they put to deeth.
17. And hated shall ye be of all men for my names sake.
18. Yet ther shall not one heer of youre heedes perisshe.
19. With youre pacience possesse youre soules.
20. And when ye se Ierusalem beseged with an hoste then vnderstonde that the desolacio of the same is nye.
21. Then let them which are in Iewrye flye to the mountaynes. And let them which are in the middes of it departe oute. And let not them that are in other countreis enter ther in.
22. For these be the dayes of vengeance to fulfill all that are writte.
23. But wo be to them that be with chylde and to them that geve sucke in those dayes: for ther shalbe greate trouble in the londe and wrath over all this people.
24. And they shall fall on the edge of the swearde and shalbe leed captive into all nacions. And Ierusalem shalbe trooden vnder fote of the gentyls vntyll the tyme of the gentyls be fulfilled.
25. And ther shalbe signes in the sunne ad in the mone and in the starres: and in ye erth the people shalbe in soche perplexite yt they shall not tell which waye to turne them selves. The see and the waters shall roore
26. and menes hertes shall fayle them for feare and for lokinge after thoose thinges which shall come on the erth. For the powers of heve shall move.
27. And then shall they se the sonne of ma come in a clowde with power and greate glory.
28. When these thinges begyn to come to passe: then loke vp and lifte vp youre heddes for youre redemcion draweth neye.
29. And he shewed the a similitude: beholde ye fygge tree and all other trees
30. when they shute forth their buddes ye se and knowe of youre awne selves that sommer is then nye at hod.
31. So lyke wyse ye (when ye se these thinges come to passe) vnderstonde that the kyngdome of God is neye.
32. Verely I saye vnto you: this generacion shall not passe tyll all be fulfilled.
33. Heaven and erth shall passe: but my wordes shall not passe.
34. Take hede to youre selves lest youre hertes be overcome with surfettinge and dronkennes and cares of this worlde: and that that daye come on you vnwares.
35. For as a snare shall it come on all them that sit on the face of the erthe.
36. Watche therfore continually and praye that ye maye obtayne grace to flye all this that shall come and that ye maye stonde before the sonne of man.
37. In the daye tyme he taught in the temple and at night he went out and had abydinge in the mount olivete.
38. And all the people came in the morninge to him in the temple for to heare him.

== Luke 22 ==
1. The feaste of swete breed drue nye whiche is called ester
2. and the hye prestes and Scribes sought how to kyll him but they feared the people.
3. Then entred Satan into Iudas whose syr name was Iscariot (which was of the nombre of the twelve)
4. and he went his waye and comuned with the hye Prestes and officers how he might betraye him to them.
5. And they were glad: and promysed to geve him money.
6. And he consented and sought oportunite to betraye him vnto them when the people were awaye.
7. Then came ye daye of swete breed when of necessite the esterlambe must be offered.
8. And he sent Peter and Iohn sayinge: Goo and prepare vs the ester lambe that we maye eate.
9. They sayde to him. Where wilt thou yt we prepare?
10. And he sayd vnto them. Beholde when ye be entred into the cite ther shall a man mete you bearinge a pitcher of water him folowe into the same housse yt he entreth in
11. and saye vnto ye good ma of ye housse. The master sayeth vnto ye: where is ye gest chamber where I shall eate myne ester lambe wt my disciples?
12. And he shall shew you a greate parloure paved. Ther make redy.
13. And they wet and foude as he had sayd vnto the: and made redy ye ester lambe.
14. And when the houre was come he sate doune and the twelve Apostles with him.
15. And he sayde vnto them: I have inwardly desyred to eate this ester lambe with you before yt I suffre.
16. For I saye vnto you: hence forthe I will not eate of it eny moore vntill it be fulfilled in the kingdome of God.
17. And he toke the cup and gave thankes and sayde. Take this and devyde it amonge you.
18. For I saye vnto you: I will not drinke of the frute of the vyne vntill the kingdome of God be come.
19. And he toke breed gave thankes and gave to them sayinge: This is my body which is geven for you. This do in the remembraunce of me.
20. Lykewyse also when they had supped he toke the cup sayinge: This cup is the newe testament in my bloud which shall for you be shedde.
21. Yet beholde the honde of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.
22. And ye sonne of man goeth as it is appoynted: But wo be to yt man by whom he is betrayed.
23. And they began to enquyre amoge them selves which of them it shuld be that shuld do that.
24. And ther was a stryfe amoge the which of them shuld be taken for the greatest.
25. And he sayde vnto them: the kynges of the getyls raygne over them and they that beare rule over them are called gracious lordes.
26. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest amonge you shalbe as the yongest: and he that is chefe shalbe as the minister.
27. For whether is greater he that sitteth at meate: or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meate? And I am amoge you as he that ministreth.
28. Ye are they which have bidden with me in my temptacions.
29. And I apoynt vnto you a kyngdome as my father hath appoynted to me:
30. that ye maye eate and drynke at my table in my kyngdome and sit on seates and iudge the twelve tribes of Israell.
31. And the Lorde sayde: Simon Simon beholde Satan hath desired you to sifte you as it were wheate:
32. bnt I have prayed for the that thy faith fayle not. And when thou arte converted strengthe thy brethre.
33. And he sayd vnto him. Lorde I am redy to go with the in to preson and to deth.
34. And he sayde: I tell the Peter the cocke shall not crowe this daye tyll thou have thryse denyed yt thou knewest me.
35. And he sayde vnto them: when I sent you with out wallet and scripe and shoes? lacked ye eny thinge? And they sayd no.
36. And he sayde to them: but nowe he that hath a wallet let him take it vp and lykewyse his scrippe. And he that hath no swearde let him sell his coote and bye one.
37. For I saye vnto you that yet that which is written must be performed in me: even with the wycked was he nombred. For those thinges which are written of me have an ende.
38. And they sayde: Lorde beholde here are two sweardes. And he sayde vnto them: it is ynough.
39. And he came out and went as he was wote to mounte olivete. And the disciples folowed him.
40. And when he came to the place he sayde to the: praye lest ye fall into temptacio.
41. And he gate him selfe from them about a stones cast and kneled doune and prayed
42. sayinge: Father yf thou wilt withdrawe this cup fro me. Neverthelesse not my will but thyne be be fulfilled.
43. And ther appered an angell vnto him from heaven confortinge him.
44. And he was in an agonye and prayed somwhat longer. And hys sweate was lyke droppes of bloud tricklynge doune to the grounde.
45. And he rose vp from prayer and came to his disciples and foude them slepinge for sorowe
46. and sayde vnto them: Why slepe ye? Ryse and praye lest ye fall into temptacion.
47. Whill he yet spake: beholde ther came a company and he that was called Iudas one of the twelve wet before them and preased nye vnto Iesus to kysse him.
48. And Iesus sayd vnto him: Iudas betrayest thou ye sonne of man with a kysse?
49. When they which were about him sawe what wolde folow they sayde vnto him. Lorde shall we smite with swearde.
50. And one of them smote a servaut of ye hiest preste of all and smote of his right eare.
51. And Iesus answered and sayd: Soffre ye thus farre forthe. And he touched his eare and healed him.
52. Then Iesus sayde vnto the hye prestes and rulers of the temple and the elders which were come to him. Be ye come out as vnto a thefe with sweardes and staves?
53. When I was dayly with you in the teple ye stretched not forth hondes agaynst me. But this is even youre very houre and the power of darcknes.
54. Then toke they him and ledde him and brought him to the hye prestes housse. And peter folowed a farre of.
55. When they had kyndled a fyre in the middes of the palys and were set doune to geder Peter also sate doune amonge them.
56. And wone of the wenches behelde him as he sate by the fyer and set good eyesight on him and sayde: this same was also with him.
57. Then he denyed hym sayinge: woman I knowe him not
58. And after a lytell whyle another sawe him and sayde: thou arte also of them. And Peter sayd man I am not.
59. And aboute the space of an houre after another affirmed sayinge: verely even this felowe was with hym for he is of Galile
60. and Peter sayde: ma I woote not what thou sayest. And immediatly whyll he yet spake the cocke crewe.
61. And the Lorde tourned backe and loked apon Peter. And Peter remembred the wordes of the Lorde how he sayde vnto him before ye cocke crowe thou shalt denye me thryse.
62. And Peter went out and wepte bitterly.
63. And the men that stode about Iesus mocked him and smoote him
64. and blyndfolded him and smoote his face. And axed him sayinge: arede who it is that smoote ye?
65. And many other thinges despytfullye sayd they agaynst him.
66. And assone as it was daye the elders of the people and the hye prestes and scribes came to gedder and ledde him into their counsell sayinge:
67. arte thou very Christ? tell vs. And he sayde vnto the: yf I shall tell you ye will not beleve
68. And yf also I axe you ye will not answere me or let me goo.
69. Herafter shall the sonne of man sit on the ryght honde of the power of God.
70. Then sayde they all: Arte thou then the sonne of God? He sayd to them: ye saye yt I am.
71. Then sayde they: what nede we eny further witnes? We oure selves have herde of his awne mouthe.

== Luke 23 ==
1. And the whole multitude of them arose and ledde him vnto Pylate.
2. And they beganne to accuse him sayinge: We have founde this felowe pervertynge the people and forbiddynge to paye tribute to Cesar: sayinge that he is Christ a kynge.
3. And Pylate apposed him sayinge: arte thou the kynge of the iewes? He answered him and sayde: thou sayest it.
4. Then sayde Pylate to the hye prestes and to the people: I fynde noo faute in this man.
5. And they were the moore fearce sayinge. He moveth the people teachynge thorowout all Iewry and beganne at Galile even to this place.
6. When Pilate hearde mencion of Galile he axed whether the ma were of Galile.
7. And assone as he knewe that he was of Herodes iurisdiccion he sent him to Herode which was also at Ierusalem in those dayes.
8. And when Herode sawe Iesus he was excedinglie gladde. For he was desyrous to se him of a longe season because he had hearde many thinges of him and trusted to have sene some myracle done by him.
9. Then questeoned he with him of many thinges. But he answered him not one worde.
10. The hye prestes and scribes stode forthe and accused him straytly.
11. And Herod wt his men of warre despysed him and mocked him and arayed him in whyte and sent him agayne to Pylate.
12. And the same daye Pylate and Herod were made frendes togeder. For before they were at variaunce.
13. And Pylate called to geder the hye prestes and the rulers and the people
14. and sayde vnto them: Ye have brought this man vnto me as one that perverted the people. And beholde I have examined him before you and have founde no faute in this man of those thinges where of ye accuse him.
15. No nor yet Herode. For I sent you to him: and lo no thinge worthy of deeth is done to him.
16. I will therfore chasten him and let him lowsse.
17. For of necessite he must have let one lowse vnto them at that feast.
18. And all the people cryed at once sayinge: awaye with him and delyvre to vs Barrabas:
19. which for insurrccion made in the cite and morther was cast into preson.
20. Pylate spake agayne to them willynge to let Iesus lowse.
21. And they cryed sayinge: Crucify him Crucify him
22. He sayde vnto them the thyrde tyme. What evyll hath he done? I fynde no cause of deeth in him. I will therfore chasten him and let him lowse.
23. And they cryed with loude voyce and required that he myght be crucifyed. And the voyce of them and of the hye Prestes prevayled.
24. And Pylate gave sentence that it shuld be as they required
25. and let lowse vnto them him that for insurreccion and morther was cast into preson whom they desyred: and delyvered Iesus to do with him what they wolde.
26. And as they ledde him awaye they caught one Symon of Syrene commynge out of the felde: and on him layde they the crosse to beare it after Iesus.
27. And ther folowed him a greate company of people and of wemen which weme bewayled and lamented him.
28. But Iesus turned backe vnto them and sayde: Doughters of Ierusalem wepe not for me: but wepe for youre selves and for youre chyldren.
29. For beholde the dayes will come when men shall saye: happy are the baren and the wombes that never bare and the pappes which never gave sucke.
30. Then shall they beginne to saye to the mountaynes fall on vs: and to the hilles cover vs.
31. For yf they do this to a grene tree what shalbe done to the drye?
32. And ther were two evyll doers ledde with him to be slayne.
33. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary there they crucified him and the evyll doers one on ryght honde and the other on the lefte.
34. Then sayde Iesus: father forgeve them for they woot not what they do. And they parted his rayment and cast loottes.
35. And the people stode and behelde. And the rulers mocked him with thee saying: he holpe other men let him helpe him selfe yf he be Christ the chosen of god.
36. The soudiers also mocked him and came and gave him veneger
37. and sayde: yf thou be that kynge of ye Iewes save thy silfe.
38. And his superscripcio was writte over him in greke in latine and Ebreu: This is the kynge of the Iewes.
39. And one of the evyll doers which hanged rayled on him sayinge: If thou be Christ save thy selfe and vs.
40. The other answered and rebuked him sayinge. Net herfearest thou god because thou arte in the same damnacion?
41. We are ryghteously punesshed for we receave accordynge to oure dedes: But this man hath done nothinge amysse.
42. And he sayde vnto Iesus: Lorde remember me when thou comest into thy kyngdome.
43. And Iesus sayde vnto him: Verely I saye vnto the to daye shalt thou be with me in Paradyse.
44. And it was about the sixt houre. And ther came a darcknes over all the londe vntyll ye nynth houre
45. and the sonne was darckened. And the vayle of the temple dyd rent even thorow the myddes.
46. And Iesus cryed with a greate voyce and sayd: Father into thy hondes I comende my sprete. And when he thus had sayd he gave vp the goost.
47. When ye Centurion sawe what had happened he glorified God sayinge: Of a surtie this man was perfecte.
48. And all the people that came to geder to that sight beholdynge the thinges which were done: smoote their bestes and returned home.
49. And all his acquayntaunce and the wemen that folowed him from Galile stode a farre of beholdynge these thinges.
50. And beholde ther was a man named Ioseph a councelloure and was a good man and a iuste
51. and dyd not consent to the counsell and dede of them which was of Aramathia a cite of the Iewes: which same also wayted for ye kyngdome of God:
52. he went vnto Pilate and begged the boddy of Iesus
53. and toke it doune and wrapped it in a lynnen clooth and layed it in an hewen toumbe wherin was never man before layed.
54. And that daye was ye Saboth even and the Saboth drue on.
55. The wemen that folowed after which came with him from Galile behelde the sepulcre and how his body was layed.
56. And they returned and prepared odoures and oyntmetes: but rested the Saboth daye accordynge to the commaundement.

== Luke 24 ==
1. On the morowe after the saboth erly in the morninge they came vnto the toumbe and brought the odoures which they had prepared and other wemen with them
2. And they founde the stone rouled awaye fro the sepulcre
3. and went in: but founde not the body of the Lorde Iesu.
4. And it happened as they were amased therat: Beholde two men stode by them in shynynge vestures.
5. And as they were a frayde and bowed doune their faces to the erth: they sayd to them: why seke ye the lyvinge amonge the deed?
6. He is not here: but is rysen. Remember how he spake vnto you when he was yet with you in Galile
7. sayinge: that the sonne of man must be delyvered into the hondes of synfull men and be crucified and the thyrde daye ryse agayne.
8. And they remembred his wordes
9. and returned from the sepulcre and tolde all these thinges vnto the eleven and to all the remanaunt.
10. It was Mary Magdalen and Ioanna and Mary Iacobi and other that were with the which tolde these thinges vnto the Apostles
11. and their wordes semed vnto them fayned thinges nether beleved they them.
12. Then aroose Peter and ran vnto the sepulcre and stouped in and sawe the lynnen cloothes layde by them selfe and departed wondrynge in him selfe at that which had happened.
13. And beholde two of them went that same daye to a toune which was fro Ierusalem about thre scoore for longes called Emaus:
14. and they talked togeder of all these thinges that had happened.
15. And it chaunsed as they comened togeder and reasoned that Iesus him selfe drue neare and went with them.
16. But their eyes were holden that they coulde not knowe him.
17. And he sayde vnto them: What maner of comunicacions are these that ye have one to another as ye walke and are sadde.
18. And the one of them named Cleophas answered and sayd vnto him: arte thou only a straunger in Ierusalem and haste not knowen the thinges which have chaunsed therin in these dayes?
19. To whom he sayd: what thinges? And they sayd vnto him: of Iesus of Nazareth which was a Prophet myghtie in dede and worde before god and all the people.
20. And how the hye prestes and oure rulers delyvered him to be condempned to deeth: and have crucified him.
21. But we trusted that it shuld have bene he that shuld have delyvered Israel. And as touchynge all these thinges to daye is even the thyrd daye that they were done.
22. Ye and certayne wemen also of oure company made vs astonyed which came erly vnto the sepulcre
23. and founde not his boddy: and came sayinge that they had sene a vision of angels which sayde that he was alyve.
24. And certayne of them which were with vs went their waye to the sepulcre and founde it even so as the wemen had sayde: but him they sawe not.
25. And he sayde vnto the: O foles and slowe of herte to beleve all yt the prophetes have spoken.
26. Ought not Christ to have suffred these thinges and to enter into his glory?
27. And he began at Moses and at all the prophetes and interpreted vnto them in all scriptures which were wrytten of him.
28. And they drue neye vnto the toune wich they went to. And he made as though he wolde have gone further.
29. But they constrayned him sayinge: abyde with vs for it draweth towardes nyght and the daye is farre passed. And he went in to tary with the.
30. And it came to passe as he sate at meate wt them he toke breed blessed it brake and gave to them.
31. And their eyes were openned and they knewe him: and he vnnisshed out of their syght.
32. And they sayde betwene them selves: dyd not oure hertes burne with in vs whyll he talked with vs by the waye and as he opened to vs the scriptures?
33. And they roose vp the same houre and returned agayne to Ierusalem and founde the eleven gadered to geder and them that were with them which
34. sayde: the Lorde is rysen in dede and hath apered to Simon.
35. And they tolde what thinges was done in the waye and how they knewe him in breakynge of breed.
36. As they thus spake Iesus him selfe stode in ye myddes of them and sayde vnto them: peace be with you.
37. And they were abasshed and afrayde supposinge yt they had sene a sprete
38. And he sayde vnto the: Why are ye troubled and why do thoughtes aryse in youre hertes?
39. Beholde my hondes and my fete that it is even my selfe. Handle me and se: for spretes have not flesshe and bones as ye se me have.
40. And when he had thus spoken he shewed them his hondes and his fete.
41. And whyll they yet beleved not for ioye and wondred he sayde vnto the: Have ye here eny meate?
42. And they gave him a pece of a broyled fisshe and of an hony combe.
43. And he toke it and ate it before them.
44. And he sayde vnto the. These are the wordes which I spake vnto you whyll I was yet with you: that all must be fulfilled which were written of me in the lawe of Moses and in the Prophetes and in the Psalmes.
45. Then openned he their wyttes that they myght vnderstond the scriptures
46. and sayde vnto them. Thus is it written and thus it behoved Christ to suffre and to ryse agayne from deeth the thyrde daye
47. and that repentaunce and remission of synnes shuld be preached in his name amonge all nacions and must beginne at Ierusalem.
48. And ye are witnesses of these thinges.
49. And beholde I will sende the promes of my father apon you. But tary ye in ye cite of Ierusalem vntyll ye be endewed with power from an hye.
50. And he ledde the out into Bethany and lyfte vp his hondes and blest them.
51. And it cam to passe as he blessed the he departed from the and was caryed vp in to heven.
52. And they worshipped him and returned to Ierusalem with greate ioye
53. and were continually in the temple praysinge and laudinge God. Amen.

== John 1 ==
1. In the beginnynge was the worde and the worde was with God: and the worde was God.
2. The same was in the beginnynge with God.
3. All thinges were made by it and with out it was made nothinge that was made.
4. In it was lyfe and the lyfe was ye lyght of men
5. and the lyght shyneth in the darcknes but the darcknes comprehended it not.
6. There was a man sent from God whose name was Iohn.
7. The same cam as a witnes to beare witnes of the lyght that all men through him myght beleve.
8. He was not that lyght: but to beare witnes of the lyght.
9. That was a true lyght which lyghteth all men that come into the worlde.
10. He was in ye worlde and the worlde was made by him: and yet the worlde knewe him not.
11. He cam amonge his (awne) and his awne receaved him not.
12. But as meny as receaved him to them he gave power to be the sonnes of God in yt they beleved on his name:
13. which were borne not of bloude nor of the will of the flesshe nor yet of the will of man: but of God.
14. And the worde was made flesshe and dwelt amonge vs and we sawe the glory of it as the glory of the only begotten sonne of ye father which worde was full of grace and verite.
15. Iohn bare witnes of him and cryed sayinge: This was he of whome I spake he that cometh after me was before me because he was yer then I.
16. And of his fulnes have all we receaved even (grace) for grace.
17. For the lawe was geven by Moses but grace and truthe came by Iesus Christ.
18. No ma hath sene God at eny tyme. The only begotte sonne which is in ye bosome of ye father he hath declared him.
19. And this is the recorde of Iohn: When the Iewes sent Prestes and Levites from Ierusalem to axe him what arte thou?
20. And he confessed and denyed not and sayde playnly: I am not Christ.
21. And they axed him: what then? arte thou Helyas? And he sayde: I am not. Arte thou a Prophete? And he answered no.
22. Then sayd they vnto him: what arte thou that we maye geve an answer to them that sent vs: What sayest thou of thy selfe?
23. He sayde: I am the voyce of a cryar in the wyldernes make strayght the waye of the Lorde as sayde the Prophete Esaias.
24. And they which were sent were of the pharises.
25. And they axed him and sayde vnto him: why baptisest thou then yf thou be not Christ nor Helyas nether a Prophet?
26. Iohn answered them sayinge: I baptise with water: but one is come amonge you whom ye knowe not
27. he it is that cometh after me whiche was before me whose sho latchet I am not worthy to vnlose.
28. These thinges were done in Bethabara beyonde Iordan where Iohn dyd baptyse.
29. The nexte daye Iohn sawe Iesus commyge vnto him and sayde: beholde the lambe of God which taketh awaye the synne of the worlde.
30. This is he of whom I sayde. After me cometh a man which was before me for he was yer then I
31. and I knew him not: but that he shuld be declared to Israell therfore am I come baptisynge with water.
32. And Iohn bare recorde sayinge: I sawe the sprete descende from heven lyke vnto a dove and abyde apon him
33. and I knewe him not. But he that sent me to baptise in water the same sayde vnto me: apon whom thou shalt se the sprete descende and tary styll on him the same is he which baptiseth with the holy goost.
34. And I sawe and bare recorde that this is the sonne of God.
35. The next daye after Iohn stode agayne and two of his disciples.
36. And he behelde Iesus as he walked by and sayde: beholde the lambe of God.
37. And the two disciples hearde him speake and folowed Iesus.
38. And Iesus turned about and sawe them folowe and sayde vnto them: what seke ye? They sayde vnto him: Rabbi (which is to saye by interpretacion Master) where dwellest thou?
39. He sayde vnto them: come and se. They came and sawe where he dwelt: and abode with him that daye. For it was about the tenthe houre.
40. One of the two which hearde Iohn speake and folowed Iesus was Andrew Simon Peters brother.
41. The same founde his brother Simon fyrst and sayde vnto him: we have founde Messias which is by interpretacion annoynted:
42. and brought him to Iesus. And Iesus behelde him and sayde: thou arte Simon the sonne of Ionas thou shalt be called Cephas: which is by interpretacion a stone.
43. The daye folowynge Iesus wolde goo into Galile and founde Philip and sayde vnto him folowe me.
44. Philip was of Bethsaida the cite of Andrew and Peter.
45. And Philip founde Nathanael and sayde vnto him. We have founde him of whom Moses in the lawe and the prophetes dyd wryte. Iesus the sonne of Ioseph of Nazareth.
46. And Nathanael sayde vnto him: can ther eny good thinge come out of Nazareth? Philip sayde to him: come and se.
47. Iesus sawe Nathanael commynge to him and sayde of him. Beholde a ryght Israelite in who is no gyle.
48. Nathanael sayd vnto him: where knewest thou me? Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: Before that Philip called the when thou wast vnder ye fygge tree I sawe the.
49. Nathanael answered and sayde vnto him: Rabbi thou arte the sonne of God thou arte the kynge of Israel.
50. Iesus answered and sayd vnto him: Because I sayde vnto the I sawe the vnder the fygge tree thou belevest. Thou shalt se greater thinges then these.
51. And he sayde vnto him: Verely verely I saye vnto you: herafter shall ye se heven open and the angels of God ascendynge and descendynge over the sonne of man.

== John 2 ==
1. And the thryde daye was ther a mariage in Cana a cite of Galile: and the mother of Iesus was there.
2. And Iesus was called also and his disciples vnto the mariage.
3. And when the wyne fayled the mother of Iesus sayde vnto him: they have no wyne.
4. Iesus sayde vnto her: woman what have I to do with the? myne houre is not yet come.
5. His mother sayde vnto the ministres: whatsoever he sayeth vnto you do it.
6. And therwere stondynge theare sixe water pottes of stone after ye maner of the purifyinge of ye Iewes contaynynge two or thre fyrkins a pece.
7. And Iesus sayde vnto them: fyll the water pottes with water. And they fylled them vp to the brym.
8. And he sayde vnto them: drawe out now and beare vnto the governer of the feaste. And they bare it.
9. When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was turned vnto wyne and knewe not whence it was (but the ministres which drue the water knew). He called the brydegrome
10. and sayde vnto him. All men at the beginnynge set forth good wyne and when men be dronke then that which is worsse. But thou hast kept backe the good wyne vntyll now.
11. This beginnynge of miracles dyd Iesus in Cana of Galile and shewed his glory and his disciples beleved on him.
12. After that he descended in to Capernaum and his mother and his brethren and his disciples: but contynued not manye dayes there.
13. And the Iewes ester was even at honde and Iesus went vp to Ierusalem
14. and founde syttynge in the temple those that solde oxen and shepe and doves and chaungers of money.
15. And he made a scourge of small cordes and drave them all out of the temple with the shepe and oxen and powred oute the changers money and overthrue the tables
16. and sayde vnto them that solde doves: Have these thinges hence and make not my fathers housse an housse of marchaundyse.
17. And his disciples remembred how yt it was wrytten: the zele of thyne housse hath even eaten me.
18. Then answered the Iewes and sayde vnto him: what token shewest thou vnto vs seynge that thou dost these thinges?
19. Iesus answered and sayd vnto them: destroye this temple and in thre dayes I will reare it vp agayne.
20. Then sayde the Iewes: xlvi. yeares was this temple abuyldinge: and wylt thou reare it vp in thre dayes?
21. But he spake of the temple of his body.
22. Assone therfore as he was rysen from deeth agayne his disciples remembred that he thus sayde. And they beleved the scripture and the wordes which Iesus had sayde.
23. When he was at Ierusalem at ester in the feaste many beleved on his name when they sawe his miracles which he dyd.
24. But Iesus put not him selfe in their hondes because he knewe all men
25. and neded not that eny man shuld testify of man. For he knewe what was in man.

== John 3 ==
1. Ther was a man of the pharises named Nicodemus a ruler amonge ye Iewes.
2. The same cam to Iesus by nyght and sayde vnto him: Rabbi we knowe that thou arte a teacher whiche arte come from God. For no man coulde do suche miracles as thou doest except God were with him.
3. Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: Verely verely I saye vnto the: except a man be boren a newe he cannot se the kyngdom of God.
4. Nicodemus sayde vnto him: how can a man be boren when he is olde? can he enter into his moders wombe and be boren agayne?
5. Iesus answered: verely verely I saye vnto the: except that a man be boren of water and of ye sprete he cannot enter into the kyngdome of god.
6. That which is boren of the flesshe is flesshe: and that which is boren of the sprete is sprete.
7. Marvayle not that I sayd to the ye must be boren a newe.
8. The wynde bloweth where he listeth and thou hearest his sounde: but canst not tell whence he cometh and whether he goeth. So is every man that is boren of the sprete.
9. And Nicodemus answered and sayde vnto him: how can these thinges be?
10. Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: arte thou a master in Israel and knowest not these thinges?
11. Verely verely I saye vnto the we speake that we knowe and testify that we have sene: and ye receave not oure witnes.
12. Yf when I tell you erthely thinges ye beleve not: how shuld ye beleve yf I shall tell you of hevenly thinges?
13. And no man ascendeth vp to heaven but he that came doune from heaven that is to saye the sonne of man which is in heaven.
14. And as Moses lifte vp the serpent in the wyldernes even so must the sonne of man be lifte vp
15. that none that beleveth in him perisshe: but have eternall lyfe.
16. For God so loveth the worlde yt he hath geven his only sonne that none that beleve in him shuld perisshe: but shuld have everlastinge lyfe.
17. For God sent not his sonne into the worlde to condepne the worlde: but that the worlde through him might be saved.
18. He that beleveth on him shall not be condepned. But he that beleveth not is condempned all redy be cause he beleveth not in the name of the only sonne of God.
19. And this is the condempnacion: that light is come into the worlde and the me loved darcknes more then light because their dedes were evill.
20. For every man that evyll doeth hateth the light: nether commeth to light lest his dedes shuld be reproved.
21. But he that doth truth commeth to the light that his dedes might be knowen how that they are wrought in God.
22. After these thinges cam Iesus and his disciples into the Iewes londe and ther he haunted with them and baptised.
23. And Iohn also baptised in Enon besydes Salim because ther was moche water there and they came and were baptised.
24. For Iohn was not yet cast into preson.
25. And ther arose a questio bitwene Iohns disciples and the Iewes about purifiynge.
26. And they came vnto Iohn and sayde vnto him: Rabbi he that was with the beyonde Iordan to whom thou barest witnes. Beholde the same baptyseth and all me come to him.
27. Iohn answered and sayde: a man can receave no thinge at all except it be geve him fro heaven.
28. Ye youre selves are witnesses how that I sayde: I am not Christ but am sent before him.
29. He that hath the bryde is the brydegrome. But the frende of the brydegrome which stondeth by and heareth him reioyseth greately of the brydgromes voyce. Tis my ioye is fulfilled.
30. He must increace: and I muste decreace.
31. He that commeth from an hye is above all: He that is of ye erth is of the erth and speaketh of the erth. He that cometh from heaven is above all
32. and what he hath sene and hearde: that he testifieth: but no man receaveth his testimonye.
33. How be it he that hath receaved hys testimonye hath set to his seale that God is true.
34. For he whom God hath sent speaketh the wordes of God. For God geveth not the sprete by measure.
35. The father loveth the sonne and hath geven all thinges into his honde.
36. He that beleveth on the sonne hath everlastynge lyfe: and he that beleveth not the sonne shall not se lyfe but the wrathe of God abydeth on him.

== John 4 ==
1. Assone as the Lorde had knowledge how the Pharises had hearde that Iesus made and baptised moo disciples then Iohn
2. (though that Iesus him selfe baptised not: but his disciples)
3. he lefte Iewry and departed agayne into Galile.
4. And it was so that he must nedes goo thorowe Samaria.
5. Then came he to a cyte of Samaria called Sichar besydes the possession that Iacob gave to his sonne Ioseph.
6. And there was Iacobs well. Iesus then weryed in his iorney sate thus on the well. And it was about the sixte houre:
7. and there came a woman of Samaria to drawe water. And Iesus sayde vnto her: geve me drynke.
8. For his disciples were gone awaye vnto the toune to bye meate.
9. Then sayde the woman of Samaria vnto him: how is it that thou beinge a Iewe axest drinke of me which am a Samaritane? for the Iewes medle not with the Samaritans.
10. Iesus answered and sayde vnto hir: yf thou knewest the gyfte of God and who it is that sayeth to the geve me drynke thou woldest have axed of him and he wolde have geven the water of lyfe.
11. The woman sayde vnto him. Syr thou hast no thinge to drawe with and the well is depe: from whence then hast thou yt water of lyfe?
12. Arte thou greater then oure father Iacob which gave vs the well and he him silfe dranke therof and his chyldren and his catell?
13. Iesus answered and sayde vnto hir: whosoever drinketh of this water shall thurst agayne.
14. But whosoever shall drinke of ye water yt I shall geve him shall never be more a thyrst: but the water that I shall geve him shalbe in him a well of water springinge vp in to everlastinge lyfe.
15. The woma sayd vnto him: Syr geve me of that water that I thyrst not nether come hedder to drawe.
16. Iesus sayde vnto her. Go and call thy husband and come hydder.
17. The woman answered and sayde to him: I have no husband.
18. Iesus sayde to her. Thou hast well sayd I have no husbande. For thou haste had five husbandes and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. That saydest thou truely.
19. The woman sayde vnto him: Syr I perceave yt thou arte a prophet.
20. Oure fathers worshipped in this mountayne: and ye saye that in Hierusalem is the place where men ought to worshippe.
21. Iesus sayde vnto her: woman beleve me the houre cometh when ye shall nether in this moutayne nor yet at Ierusalem worshippe the father.
22. Ye worshippe ye wot not what: we knowe what we worshippe. For salvacion cometh of the Iewes.
23. But the houre commeth and nowe is when the true worshippers shall worshippe the father in sprete and in trouthe. For verely suche the father requyreth to worshippe him.
24. God is a sprete and they that worshippe him must worshippe him in sprete and trouthe.
25. The woman sayde vnto him: I wot well Messias shall come which is called Christ. When he is come he will tell vs all thinges.
26. Iesus sayde vnto hir: I that speake vnto the am he.
27. And eve at that poynte came his disciples and marvelled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man sayde vnto him: what meanest thou or why talkest thou with her?
28. The woma then lefte her waterpot and went her waye into the cite and sayde to the men.
29. Come se a man which tolde me all thinges yt ever I dyd. Is not he Christ?
30. Then they went ont of the cite and came vnto him.
31. And in ye meane while his disciples prayed him sayinge: Master eate.
32. He sayde vnto the: I have meate to eate that ye knowe not of.
33. Then sayd ye disciples bitwene them selves: hath eny ma brought him meate?
34. Iesus sayde vnto them: my meate is to doo the will of him that sent me. And to fynnysshe his worke.
35. Saye not ye: there are yet foure monethes and then cometh harvest? Beholde I saye vnto you lyfte vp youre eyes and loke on ye regios: for they are whyte all redy vnto harvest.
36. And he ye repeth receaveth rewarde and gaddereth frute vnto life eternall: that bothe he that soweth and he yt repeth myght reioyse to gether.
37. And herin is the sayinge true yt one soweth and another repeth.
38. I sent you to repe yt whero ye bestowed no laboure. Other men laboured and ye are entred into their labours.
39. Many of the Samaritas of that cyte beleved on him for ye sayinge of the woma which testified: he tolde me all thinges yt ever I dyd.
40. Then when the Samaritas were come vnto him they besought him yt he wolde tary wt the. And he aboode there two dayes.
41. And many moo beleved because of his awne wordes
42. and sayd vnto the woman: Now we beleve not because of thy sayinge. For we have herde him oure selves and knowe that this is even in dede Christ the savioure of the worlde.
43. After two dayes he departed thence and wet awaye into Galile.
44. And Iesus him selfe testified that a Prophete hath none honoure in his awne countre.
45. Then assone as he was come into Galile the Galileans receaved him which had sene all the thinges yt he dyd at Ierusalem at ye feast. For they wet also vnto ye feast daye.
46. And Iesus came agayne into Cana of Galile wher he turned water into wyne. And ther was a certayne ruler whose sonne was sicke at Capernaum.
47. Assone as the same herde that Iesus was come out of Iewry into Galile he wet vnto him and besought him yt he wolde descende and heale his sonne: For he was eve readie to dye.
48. Then sayde Iesus vnto him: excepte ye se signes and wodres ye canot beleve.
49. The ruler sayd vnto him: Syr come awaye or ever yt my chylde dye.
50. Iesus sayde vnto him goo thy waye thy sonne liveth. And the ma beleved ye wordes yt Iesus had spoke vnto him and wet his waye.
51. And anone as he went on his waye his servantes met him and tolde him sayinge: thy chylde liveth.
52. Then enquyred he of the the houre when he begane to amende. And they sayde vnto him: Yester daye the sevethe houre the fever lefte him.
53. And the father knew that it was the same houre in which Iesus sayde vnto him: Thy sonne liveth. And he beleved and all his housholde.
54. Thys is agayne the seconde myracle yt Iesus dyd after he was come oute of Iewry into Galile.

== John 5 ==
1. After that ther was a feast of the Iewes and Iesus went vp to Ierusalem.
2. And ther is at Ierusalem by ye slaughterhousse a pole called in ye Ebrue toge Bethseda havinge five porches
3. in which laye a greate multitude of sicke folke of blinde halt and wyddered waytinge for the movinge of the water.
4. For an angell wet doune at a certayne ceason into ye pole and troubled ye water. Whosoever then fyrst after the steringe of the water stepped in was made whoale of what soever disease he had.
5. And a certayne ma was theare which had bene diseased.xxxviii. yeares
6. When Iesus sawe him lye and knewe that he now longe tyme had bene diseased he sayde vnto him. Wilt thou be made whoale?
7. The sicke answered him: Syr I have no man whe the water is troubled to put me into the pole. But in the meane tyme whill I am about to come another steppeth doune before me.
8. And Iesus sayde vnto him: ryse take vp thy beed and walke.
9. And immediatly the man was made whole and toke vp his beed and went. And the same daye was the Saboth daye
10. The Iewes therfore sayde vnto him that was made whole. It is ye Saboth daye it is not laufull for the to cary thy beed
11. He answered them: he that made me whole sayde vnto me: take vp thy beed and get the hence.
12. Then axed they him: what man is that which sayde vnto the take vp thy beed and walke.
13. And he yt was healed wist not who it was. For Iesus had gotte him selfe awaye be cause yt ther was preace of people in ye place.
14. And after that Iesus founde him in the teple and sayd vnto him: beholde thou arte made whole synne no moore lest a worsse thinge happe vnto the.
15. The man departed and tolde ye Iewes that yt was Iesus whiche had made him whole.
16. And therfore the Iewes dyd persecute Iesus and sought the meanes to slee him because he had done these thinges on the Saboth daye.
17. And Iesus answered them: my father worketh hidder to and I worke.
18. Therfore the Iewes sought the moare to kill him not only because he had broken the Saboth: but sayde also that God was his father and made him selfe equall with God.
19. Then answered Iesus and sayde vnto them: verely verely I saye vnto you: the sonne can do no thinge of him selfe but that he seeth ye father do. For whatsoever he doeth yt doeth the sonne also.
20. For the father loveth ye sonne and sheweth him all thinges whatsoever he him selfe doeth. And he will shewe him greter workes then these because ye shoulde marvayle.
21. For lykwyse as the father rayseth vp ye deed and quickeneth them even so the sonne quyckeneth whom he will.
22. Nether iudgeth ye father eny ma: but hath comitted all iudgemet vnto the sonne
23. because that all men shuld honoure the sonne eve as they honoure the father. He that honoureth not ye sonne the same honoureth not the father which hath sent him.
24. Verely verely I saye vnto you: He that heareth my wordes and beleveth on him that sent me hath everlastinge lyfe and shall not come into damnacion: but is scaped fro deth vnto lyfe.
25. Verely verely I saye vnto you: the tyme shall come and now is when the deed shall heare the voyce of the sonne of God. And they yt heare shall live.
26. For as the father hath life in him silfe: so lyke wyse hath he geven to ye sonne to have lyfe in him silfe:
27. and hath geven him power also to iudge in that he is the sonne of man.
28. Marvayle not at this ye houre shall come in the which all yt are in the graves shall heare his voice
29. and shall come forthe: they that have done good vnto the resurreccion of lyfe: and they that have done evyll vnto the resurreccion of dampnacion.
30. I can of myne awne selfe do nothinge at all. As I heare I iudge and my iudgemet is iust because I seke not myne awne will but the will of ye father which hath sent me.
31. Yf I beare witnes of my selfe my witnes is not true.
32. Ther is a nother that beareth witnes of me and I am sure that the witnes whiche he beareth of me is true.
33. Ye sent vnto Iohn and he bare witnes vnto the truthe.
34. But I receave not the recorde of man. Neverthelesse these thinges I saye that ye might be safe.
35. He was a burninge and a shyninge light and ye wolde for a season have reioysed in his light.
36. But I have greater witnes then the witnes of Iohn. For ye workes which ye father hath geve me to fynisshe: the same workes which I do beare witnes of me that ye father sent me.
37. And the father him silfe which hath sent me beareth witnes of me. Ye have not hearde his voyce at eny tyme nor ye have sene his shape:
38. therto his wordes have ye not abydinge in you. For whome he hath sent: him ye beleve not.
39. Searche the scriptures for in them ye thinke ye have eternall lyfe: and they are they which testify of me.
40. And yet will ye not come to me that ye might have lyfe.
41. I receave not prayse of men.
42. But I knowe you that ye have not the love of God in you
43. I am come in my fathers name and ye receave me not. Yf another shall come in his awne name him will ye receave.
44. How can ye beleve which receave honoure one of another and seke not the honoure that commeth of God only?
45. Doo not thinke that I wyll accuse you to my father. Ther is one that accuseth you eve Moses in whom ye trust.
46. For had ye beleved Moses ye wold have beleved me: for he wrote of me.
47. But now ye beleve not his writinge: how shall ye beleve my wordes.

== John 6 ==
1. After these thinges Iesus wet his waye over the see of Galile nye to a cyte called Tiberias.
2. And a greate multitude folowed him because they had sene his myracles which he dyd on them that were diseased.
3. And Iesus went vp into a mountayne and there he sate with his disciples.
4. And ester a feast of ye Iewes was nye.
5. Then Iesus lifte vp his eyes and sawe a greate copany come vnto him and sayde vnto Philip: whence shall we bye breed yt these might eate.
6. This he sayde to prove him: for he him sylfe knewe what he wolde do.
7. Philip answered him two hondred peny worthe of breed are not sufficient for them yt every ma have a litell.
8. Then sayde vnto him one of his disciples Andrew Simon Peters brother.
9. There ys a lad here which hath fyve barly loves and two fisshes: but what is that amoge so many?
10. And Iesus sayde. Make the people sit doune: Ther was moche grasse in the place. And the men sate doune in nombre about five thousande.
11. And Iesus toke the breed and gave thankes and gave to the disciples and his disciples to them that were set doune. And lykwyse of the fysshes as moche as they wolde.
12. When they had eate ynough he sayd vnto his disciples: gadder vp the broke meate that remayneth: that nothinge be loost.
13. And they gadered it to geder and fylled twelve baskettes with the broken meate of the five barly loves which broken meate remayned vnto the that had eaten.
14. Then the men when they had sene the myracle that Iesus dyd sayde: This is of a trueth the Prophet that shuld come into the worlde.
15. When Iesus perceaved that they wolde come and take him vp to make him kinge he departed agayne into a mountayne him silfe a lone.
16. And when eve was come his disciples wet vnto the see
17. and entred into a shyppe and went over the see vnto Capernaum. And anone it was darcke and Iesus was not come to them.
18. And ye see arose with a greate winde yt blew.
19. And when they had rowe aboute a.xxv. or a xxx. furlonges they sawe Iesus walke on ye see and drawe nye vnto the shyp and they were afrayed.
20. And he sayde vnto them: It is I be not a frayde.
21. Then wolde they have receaved him into the shyp and the ship was by and by at the londe whyther they went.
22. The daye folowynge the people which stode on the other syde of the see sawe that ther was none other shyp theare save yt one wher in his disciples were entred and that Iesus went not in with his disciples into the ship: but that his disciples were gone awaye alone.
23. How be it ther came other shippes from Tiberias nye vnto the place where they ate breed when the Lorde had blessed.
24. Then whe the people sawe that Iesus was not there nether his disciples they also toke shippinge and came to Caparnaum sekinge for Iesus.
25. And when they had founde him on ye other syde of ye see they sayd vnto him: Rabbi whe camest thou hidder?
26. Iesus answered them and sayde: verely verely I saye vnto you: ye seke me not because ye sawe the myracles: but because ye ate of the loves and were filled.
27. Laboure not for ye meate which perissheth but for ye meate that endureth vnto everlastynge lyfe whiche meate ye sonne of ma shall geve vnto you. For him hath god ye father sealed.
28. Then sayd they vnto him: what shall we do that we myght worke ye workes of God?
29. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them. This is ye worke of God that ye beleve on him who he hath sent.
30. They sayde vnto him: what signe shewest thou then that we maye se and beleve the? What doest thou worke?
31. Oure fathers dyd eate Manna in the desert as yt is writte: He gave them breed fro heaven to eate.
32. Iesus sayde vnto the: verely verely I saye vnto you: Moses gave you breed fro heave: but my father geveth you the true breed fro heave.
33. For the breed of God is he which cometh doune from heave and geveth lyfe vnto the worlde.
34. Then sayde they vnto him: Lorde ever moore geve vs this breed.
35. And Iesus sayde vnto them: I am that breed of life. He that cometh to me shall not honger: and he that beleveth on me shall never thurst.
36. But I sayed vnto you: that ye have sene me aud yet beleve not.
37. All that the father geveth me shall come to me: and him yt cometh to me I cast not awaye.
38. For I came doune fro heaven: not to do myne awne will but his will which hath sent me.
39. And this is the fathers will which hath sent me that of all which he hath geven me I shuld loose no thinge: but shuld rayse it vp agayne at the last daye.
40. And this is the wyll of him yt sent me: yt every man which seith ye sonne and beleveth on him have everlastinge lyfe. And I will rayse him vp at ye last daye.
41. The Iewes then murmured at him because he sayde: I am that breed which is come doune from heaven.
42. And they sayde: Is not this Iesus ye sonne of Ioseph whose father and mother we knowe? How ys yt then that he sayeth I came doune from heave?
43. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them. Murmur not betwene youre selves.
44. No man can come to me except the father which hath sent me drawe him. And I will rayse him vp at the last daye.
45. It is written in the Prophetes yt they shall all be taught of God. Every man therfore that hath hearde and hath learned of the father commeth vnto me.
46. Not that eny man hath sene ye father save he which is of God: the same hath sene the father.
47. Verely verely I saye vnto you he that beleveth on me hath everlastinge lyfe.
48. I am that breed of lyfe.
49. Youre fathers dyd eate Mana in ye wildernes and are deed.
50. This is that breed which cometh fro heave yt he which eateth of it shuld also not dye.
51. I am that lyvinge breed which came doune from heave. Yf eny man eate of this breed he shall live forever. And the breed that I will geve is my flesshe which I will geve for the lyfe of ye worlde
52. And the Iewes strove amoge them selves sayinge: How can this felowe geve vs his flesshe to eate?
53. Then Iesus sayde vnto them: Verely verely I saye vnto you except ye eate ye flesshe of ye sonne of man and drinke his bloude ye shall not have lyfe in you
54. Whosoever eateth my flesshe and drinketh my bloude hath eternall lyfe: and I will rayse him vp at the last daye.
55. For my flesshe is meate in dede: and my bloude is drynke in dede.
56. He that eateth my flesshe and drynketh my bloude dwelleth in me and I in him.
57. As the lyvinge father hath sent me even so lyve I by my father: and he that eateth me shall live by me.
58. This is the breed which cam from heave: not as youre fathers have eaten Manna and are deed. He that eateth of this breed shall live ever.
59. These thinges sayd he in the synagoge as he taught in Capernaum.
60. Many of his disciples when they had herde this sayde: this is an herde sayinge: who can abyde the hearinge of it?
61. Iesus knew in him selfe that his disciples murmured at it and sayde vnto them: Doth this offende you?
62. What and yf ye shall se the sonne of man ascede vp where he was before?
63. It is the sprete that quyckeneth the flesshe proffeteth nothinge. The wordes that I speake vnto you are sprete and lyfe.
64. But ther are some of you that beleve not. For Iesus knewe from the begynnynge which they were that beleved not and who shuld betraye him.
65. And he sayde: Therfore sayde I vnto you: that no man can come vnto me except it were geven vnto him of my father.
66. From that tyme many of his disciples wet backe and walked no moore with him.
67. Then sayde Iesus to the twelve: will ye alsoo goo awaye?
68. Then Simon Peter answered: Master to whom shall we goo? Thou haste the wordes of eternall lyfe
69. and we beleve and knowe yt thou arte Christ the sonne of the lyvinge God.
70. Iesus answered them: Have not I chosen you twelve and yet one of you is the devyll?
71. He spake it of Iudas Iscariot the sonne of Simon. For he it was yt shuld betraye him and was one of the twelve.

== John 7 ==
1. After that Iesus wet about in Galile and wolde not go about in Iewry for the Iewes sought to kill him.
2. The Iewes tabernacle feast was at honde.
3. His brethren therfore sayde vnto him: get ye hence and go into Iewry yt thy disciples maye se thy workes yt thou doest.
4. For ther is no man yt doeth eny thing secretly and he him selfe seketh to be knowen. Yf thou do soche thinges shewe thy selfe to the worlde.
5. For as yet his brethre beleved not in him.
6. Then Iesus sayd vnto them: My tyme is not yet come youre tyme is all waye redy.
7. The worlde canot hate you. Me it hateth: because I testify of it that the workes of it are evyll.
8. Go ye vp vnto this feast. I will not go vp yet vnto this feast for my tyme is not yet full come.
9. These wordes he sayde vnto them and abode still in Galile.
10. But assone as his brethren were goone vp then went he also vp vnto the feast: not openly but as it were prevely.
11. Then sought him the Iewes at ye feast and sayde: Where is he?
12. And moche murmurynge was ther of him amonge the people. Some sayde: He is good. Wother sayde naye but he deceaveth the people.
13. How be it no ma spake openly of him for feare of the Iewes
14. In ye middes of the feast Iesus went vp into the temple and taught.
15. And the Iewes marveylled sayinge: How knoweth he ye scriptures seynge yt he never learned?
16. Iesus answered them and sayde: My doctrine is not myne: but his that sent me.
17. If eny man will do his will he shall knowe of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speake of my selfe.
18. He that speaketh of him selfe seketh his awne prayse. But he that seketh his prayse that sent him the same is true and no vnrightewesnes is in him.
19. Dyd not Moses geve you a lawe and yet none of you kepeth ye lawe? Why goo ye aboute to kyll me?
20. The people answered and sayde: thou hast the devyll: who goeth aboute to kyll the?
21. Iesus answered and sayde to them: I have done one worke and ye all marvayle.
22. Moses therfore gave vnto you circumcision: not because it is of Moses but of the fathers. And yet ye on the Saboth daye circumcise a man.
23. If a man on the Saboth daye receave circumcision without breakinge of the lawe of Moses: disdayne ye at me because I have made a man every whit whoale on the saboth daye?
24. Iudge not after the vtter aperaunce: but iudge rightewes iudgement.
25. Then sayd some of them of Ierusalem: Is not this he who they goo aboute to kyll?
26. Beholde he speaketh boldly and they saye nothinge to him. Do the rulars knowe in dede that this is very Christ?
27. How be it we knowe this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh no man shall knowe whence he is.
28. Then cryed Iesus in ye temple as he taught sayinge: ye knowe me and whence I am ye knowe. And yet I am not come of my selfe but he yt sent me is true whom ye knowe not.
29. I knowe him: for I am of him and he hath sent me.
30. Then they sought to take him: but no ma layde hondes on him because his tyme was not yet come.
31. Many of the people beleved on him and sayde: when Christ cometh will he do moo miracles then this man hath done?
32. The pharises hearde that the people murmured suche thinges about him. Wherfore ye pharises and hye prestes sent ministres forthe to take him.
33. Then sayde Iesus vnto the: Yet am I a lytell whyle with you and then goo I vnto him that sent me.
34. Ye shall seke me and shall not fynde me: and where I am thyther can ye not come.
35. Then sayde the Iewes bitwene the selves: whyther will he goo that we shall not fynde him? Will he goo amonge the gentyls which are scattered all a broade and teache the gentyls?
36. What maner of sayinge is this that he sayde: ye shall seke me and shall not fynde me: and where I am thyther can ye not come?
37. In the last daye that great daye of the feaste Iesus stode and cryed sayinge: If eny man thyrst let him come vnto me and drinke.
38. He that beleveth on me as sayeth the scripture out of his belly shall flowe ryvers of water of lyfe.
39. This spak he of the sprete which they that beleved on him shuld receave. For the holy goost was not yet there because that Iesus was not yet glorifyed.
40. Many of the people when they hearde this sayinge sayd: of a truth this is a prophet
41. Other sayde: this is Christ. Some sayde: shall Christ come out of Galile?
42. Sayeth not the scripture that Christ shall come of the seed of David: and out of the toune of Bethleem where David was?
43. So was ther dissencion amonge the people aboute him.
44. And some of them wolde have taken him: but no man layed hondes on him.
45. Then came ye ministres to ye hye prestes and pharises. And they sayde vnto the: why have ye not brought him?
46. The servautes answered never man spake as this man doeth.
47. Then answered the the pharises: are ye also disceaved?
48. Doth eny of the rulers or of the pharises beleve on him?
49. But the comen people whiche knowe not ye lawe are cursed.
50. Nicodemus sayde vnto them: He that came to Iesus by nyght and was one of them.
51. Doth oure lawe iudge eny man before it heare him and knowe what he hath done?
52. They answered and sayde vnto him: arte thou also of Galile? Searche and loke for out of Galile aryseth no Prophet.
53. And every man went vnto his awne housse.

== John 8 ==
1. And Iesus went vnto mounte Olivete
2. and erly in ye mornynge came agayne into ye temple and all the people came vnto him and he sate doune and taught them.
3. And the scribes and ye pharises brought vnto him a woman taken in advoutry and set hyr in the myddes
4. and sayde vnto him: Master this woman was taken in advoutry even as the dede was a doyng.
5. Moses in the lawe comaunded vs yt suche shuld be stoned. What sayest thou therfore?
6. And this they sayde to tempt him: that they myght have wherof to accuse him. Iesus stouped doune and with his fynger wrote on the grounde.
7. And whyll they continued axynge him he lyfte him selfe vp and sayde vnto them: let him yt is amoge you wt out synne cast the fyrst stone at her.
8. And agayne he stouped doune and wrote on ye grounde.
9. And assone as they hearde that they went out one by one the eldest fyrst. And Iesus was lefte a lone and the woman stondynge in ye myddes.
10. When Iesus had lyfte vp him selfe agayne and sawe no man but the woman he sayde vnto hyr. Woman where are those thyne accusars? Hath no man condempned the?
11. She sayde: No man Lorde. And Iesus sayde: Nether do I condempne the. Goo and synne no moare.
12. Then spake Iesus agayne vnto them sayinge: I am the light of the worlde. He that foloweth me shall not walke in darcknes: but shall have the light of lyfe.
13. The pharises sayde vnto him: thou bearest recorde of thy sylfe thy recorde is not true.
14. Iesus answered and sayde vnto them: Though I beare recorde of my selfe yet my recorde is true: for I knowe whece I came and whyther I goo. But ye cannot tell whece I come and whyther I goo.
15. Ye iudge after ye flesshe. I iudge no man
16. though I iudge yet is my iudgmet true. For I am not alone: but I and the father that sent me.
17. It is also written in youre lawe that the testimony of two men is true.
18. I am one yt beare witnes of my selfe and the father that sent me beareth witnes of me.
19. Then sayde they vnto him: where is thy father? Iesus answered: ye nether knowe me nor yet my father. Yf ye had knowen me ye shuld have knowen my father also.
20. These wordes spake Iesus in the tresury as he taught in the temple and no man layde hondes on him for his tyme was not yet come.
21. Then sayde Iesus agayne vnto them. I goo my waye and ye shall seke me and shall dye in youre synnes. Whyther I goo thyther can ye not come.
22. Then sayde the Iewes: will he kyll him selfe because he sayth: whyther I goo thyther can ye not come?
23. And he sayde vnto the: ye are fro beneth I am from above. Ye are of this worlde I am not of this worlde.
24. I sayde therfore vnto you that ye shall dye in youre synnes. For except ye beleve that I am he ye shall dye in youre synnes.
25. Then sayde they vnto him who arte thou? And Iesus sayde vnto them: Even ye very same thinge yt I saye vnto you.
26. I have many thinges to saye and to iudge of you. But he yt sent me is true. And I speake in ye worlde those thinges which I have hearde of him.
27. They understode not that he spake of his father.
28. Then sayde Iesus vnto them: when ye have lyft vp an hye the sonne of man then shall ye knowe that I am he and that I do nothinge of my selfe: but as my father hath taught me even so I speake:
29. and he that sent me is with me. The father hath not lefte me alone for I do alwayes those thinges that please him.
30. As he spake these wordes many beleved on him.
31. Then sayde Iesus to those Iewes which beleved on him. If ye cotinue in my wordes then are ye my very disciples
32. and shall knowe the trueth: and the trueth shall make you free.
33. They answered him: We be Abrahams seede and were never bonde to eny man: why sayest thou then ye shalbe made fre.
34. Iesus answered them: verely verely I saye vnto you that whosoever committeth synne is the servaunt of synne.
35. And the servaunt abydeth not in the housse for ever: But ye sonne abydeth ever.
36. If the sonne therfore shall make you fre then are ye fre in dede.
37. I knowe that ye are Abrahams seed: But ye seke meanes to kyll me because my sayinges have no place in you.
38. I speake that I have sene with my father: and ye do that which ye have sene with youre father.
39. They answered and sayde vnto him: Abraham is oure father. Iesus sayde vnto them. If ye were Abrahams chyldren ye wolde do the dedes of Abraham.
40. But now ye goo about io kyll me a man that have tolde you the truthe which I have herde of god: this dyd not Abraham.
41. Ye do the dedes of youre father. Then sayde they vnto him: we were not borne of fornicacion. We have one father which is God.
42. Iesus sayde vnto them: yf God were youre father then wolde ye love me. For I proceaded forthe and come from God. Nether came I of my selfe but he sent me.
43. Why do ye not knowe my speache? Even because ye cannot abyde the hearynge of my wordes.
44. Ye are of youre father the devyll and the lustes of youre father ye will folowe. He was a murtherer from the beginnynge and aboode not in the trueth because ther is no trueth in him. When he speaketh a lye then speaketh he of his awne. For he is a lyar and the father therof.
45. And because I tell you ye trueth therfore ye beleve me not.
46. Which of you can rebuke me of synne? If I saye ye trueth why do not ye beleve me?
47. He that is of God heareth goddes wordes Ye therfore heare them not because ye are not of God.
48. Then answered the Iewes and sayde vnto him: Saye we not well that thou arte a Samaritane and hast the devyll?
49. Iesus answered: I have not the devyll: but I honour my father and ye have dishonoured me.
50. I seke not myne awne prayse: but ther is one that seketh and iudgeth.
51. Verely verely I saye vnto you yf a man kepe my sayinges he shall never se deeth.
52. Then sayde the Iewes to him: Now knowe we that thou hast the devyll. Abraha is deed and also the Prophetes: and yet thou sayest yf a man kepe my sayinge he shall never tast of deeth.
53. Arte thou greater then oure father Abraham which is deed? and the Prophetes are deed. Whome makest thou thy selfe?
54. Iesus answered: Yf I honoure my selfe myne honoure is nothinge worth. It is my father that honoureth me which ye saye is youre God
55. and ye have not knowen him: but I knowe him. And yf I shuld saye I knowe him not I shuld be a lyar lyke vnto you. But I knowe him and kepe his sayinge.
56. Youre father Abraham was glad to se my daye and he sawe it and reioysed.
57. Then sayde the Iewes vnto him: thou arte not yet.l. yere olde and hast thou sene Abraham?
58. Iesus sayd vnto them: Verely verely I saye vnto you: yer Abraham was I am.
59. Then toke they vp stones to caste at him. But Iesus hid him selfe and went out of ye temple.

== John 9 ==
1. And as Iesus passed by he sawe a man which was blynde from his birth.
2. And his disciples axed him sayinge. Master who dyd synne: this man or his father and mother that he was borne blynde?
3. Iesus answered: Nether hath this man synned nor yet his father and mother: but that the workes of God shuld be shewed on him.
4. I must worke the workes of him that sent me whyll it is daye. The nyght cometh when no man can worke.
5. As longe as I am in the worlde I am the lyght of the worlde.
6. Assone as he had thus spoken he spate on the grounde and made claye of the spetle and rubbed the claye on the eyes of the blynde
7. and sayde vnto him: Goo wesshe the in ye pole of Syloe which by interpretacion signifieth sent. He went his waye and wasshed and cam agayne seinge.
8. The neghboures and they that had sene him before how that he was a begger sayde: is not this he that sate and begged?
9. Some sayde: this is he. Other sayd: he is lyke him. But he him selfe sayde: I am even he.
10. They sayde vnto him: How are thyne eyes opened then?
11. He answered and sayde. The ma that is called Iesus made claye and anoynted myne eyes and sayd vnto me: Goo to the pole Syloe and wesshe. I went and wesshed and receaved my syght.
12. They sayde vnto him: where is he? He sayde: I cannot tell.
13. Then brought they to ye pharises him that a lytell before was blynde:
14. for it was the Saboth daye when Iesus made the claye and opened his eyes.
15. Then agayne the pharises also axed him how he had receaved his syght. He sayde vnto the: He put claye apon myne eyes and I wasshed and do se.
16. Then sayde some of the pharises: this man is not of God because he kepeth not the saboth daye. Other sayde: how can a man yt is a synner do suche myracles? And ther was stryfe amonge the.
17. Then spake they vnto the blynde agayne: What sayst thou of him because he hath openned thyne eyes? And he sayd: He is a Prophet.
18. But the Iewes dyd not beleve of the felowe how that he was blynde and receaved his syght vntyll they had called the father and mother of him that had receaved his syght.
19. And they axed the saying: Is this youre sonne whome ye saye was borne blynde? How doth he now se then?
20. His father and mother answered them and sayde: we wote well that this is oure sonne and that he was borne blynde:
21. but by what meanes he now seith that can we not tell or who hath opened his eyes can we not tell. He is olde ynough axe him let him answer for him selfe.
22. Suche wordes spake his father and mother because they feared the Iewes. For the Iewes had conspyred all redy that yf eny man dyd confesse that he was Christ he shuld be excommunicat out of the synagoge.
23. Therefore sayde his father and mother: he is olde ynough axe him.
24. Then agayne called they the man that was blynde and sayd vnto him: Geve God the prayse: we knowe that this man is a synner.
25. He answered and sayde: Whyther he be a synner or noo I cannot tell: One thinge I am sure of that I was blynde and now I se.
26. Then sayde they to him agayne. What dyd he to the? How opened he thyne eyes?
27. He answered them I tolde you yerwhyle and ye dyd not heare. Wherfore wolde ye heare it agayne? Will ye also be his disciples?
28. Then rated they him and sayde: Thou arte his disciple. We be Moses disciples.
29. We are sure that God spake with Moses. This felowe we knowe not from whence he is.
30. The man answered and sayde vnto them: this is a merveleous thinge that ye wote not whence he is seinge he hath opened myne eyes.
31. For we be sure that God heareth not synners. But yf eny man be a worshipper of God and do his will him heareth he.
32. Sence ye worlde beganne was it not hearde yt eny man opened the eyes of one that was borne blynd.
33. If this man were not of God he coulde have done no thinge.
34. They answered and sayd vnto him: thou arte altogeder borne in synne: and dost thou teache vs? And they cast him out.
35. Iesus hearde that they had excommunicate him: and assone as he had founde him he sayd vnto him: doest thou beleve on the sonne of God?
36. He answered and sayde: Who is it Lorde that I myght beleve on him?
37. And Iesus sayde vnto him: Thou hast sene him and he it is that talketh with the.
38. And he sayde: Lorde I beleve: and worshipped him.
39. Iesus sayde: I am come vnto iudgement into this worlde: that they which se not myght se and they which se myght be made blynde.
40. And some of the pharises which were with him hearde these wordes and sayde vnto him: are we then blynde?
41. Iesus sayde vnto them: yf ye were blynde ye shuld have no synne. But now ye saye we se therfore youre synne remayneth.

== John 10 ==
1. Verely verely I saye vnto you: he that entreth not in by ye dore into the shepefolde but clymeth vp some other waye: the same is a thefe and a robber.
2. He that goeth in by ye dore is the shepeherde of ye shepe:
3. to him the porter openeth and the shepe heare his voyce and he calleth his awne shepe by name and leadeth them out.
4. And when he hath sent forthe his awne shepe he goeth before them and the shepe folowe him: for they knowe his voyce.
5. A straunger they will not folowe but will flye from him: for they knowe not the voyce of straungers.
6. This similitude spake Iesus vnto them. But they vnderstode not what thinges they were which he spake vnto them.
7. Then sayde Iesus vnto them agayne. Verely verely I saye vnto you: I am the dore of the shepe.
8. All even as many as came before me are theves and robbers: but the shepe dyd not heare them.
9. I am the dore: by me yf eny man enter in he shalbe safe and shall goo in and out and fynde pasture.
10. The thefe cometh not but forto steale kyll and destroye. I am come that they myght have lyfe and have it more aboundantly.
11. I am ye good shepeheerd. The good shepeheerd geveth his lyfe for ye shepe.
12. An heyred servaut which is not ye shepeherd nether ye shepe are his awne seith the wolfe comynge and leveth the shepe and flyeth and the wolfe catcheth them and scattereth ye shepe.
13. The heyred servaut flyeth because he is an heyred servaunt and careth not for the shepe.
14. I am that good shepeheerd and knowe myne and am knowe of myne.
15. As my father knoweth me: even so knowe I my father. And I geve my lyfe for the shepe:
16. and other shepe I have which are not of this folde. Them also must I bringe that they maye heare my voyce and that ther maye be one flocke and one shepeherde.
17. Therfore doth my father love me because I put my lyfe from me that I myght take it agayne.
18. No man taketh it from me: but I put it awaye of my selfe. I have power to put it from me and have power to take it agayne: This comaundment have I receaved of my father.
19. And ther was a dissencion agayne amoge the Iewes for these sayinges
20. and many of them sayd. He hath the devyll and is mad: why heare ye him?
21. Other sayde these are not the wordes of him that hath the devyll. Can the devyll open the eyes of the blynde?
22. And it was at Ierusalem ye feaste of the dedicacion and it was wynter:
23. and Iesus walked in Salomons porche.
24. Then came the Iewes rounde aboute him and sayde vnto him: How longe dost thou make vs doute? Yf thou be Christ tell vs playnly.
25. Iesus answered them: I tolde you and ye beleve not. The workes yt I do in my fathers name they beare witnes of me.
26. But ye beleve not because ye are not of my shepe. As I sayde vnto you:
27. my shepe heare my voyce and I knowe them and they folowe me
28. and I geve vnto the eternall lyfe and they shall never perisshe nether shall eny man plucke the oute of my honde.
29. My father which gave the me is greatter then all and no man is able to take them out of my fathers honde.
30. And I and my father are one.
31. Then the Iewes agayne toke up stones to stone him with all.
32. Iesus answered them: many good workes have I shewed you from my father: for which of them will ye stone me?
33. The Iewes answered him sayinge. For thy good workes sake we stone ye not: but for thy blasphemy and because that thou beinge a man makest thy selfe God.
34. Iesus answered them: Is it not written in youre lawe: I saye ye are goddes?
35. If he called the goddes vnto whom the worde of God was spoken (and the scripture can not be broken)
36. saye ye then to him whom the father hath sainctified and sent into the worlde thou blasphemest because I sayd I am the sonne of God?
37. If I do not the workes of my father beleve me not.
38. But if I do though ye beleve not me yet beleve the workes that ye maye knowe and beleve that the father is in me and I in him.
39. Agayne they went aboute to take him: but he escaped out of their hondes
40. and went awaye agayne beyonde Iordan into the place where Iohn before had baptised and there aboode.
41. And many resorted vnto him and sayd. Iohn dyd no miracle: but all thinges that Iohn spake of this man are true.
42. And many beleved on him theare.

== John 11 ==
1. A certayne man was sicke named Lazarus of Bethania the toune of Mary and her sister Martha.
2. It was that Mary which annoynted Iesus with oyntment and wyped his fete with her heere whose brother Lazarus was sicke
3. and his sisters sent vnto him sayinge. Lorde behold he whom thou lovest is sicke.
4. When Iesus hearde yt he sayd: this infirmite is not vnto deth but for ye laude of God that the sonne of God myght be praysed by the reason of it.
5. Iesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
6. After he hearde that he was sicke then aboode he two dayes still in the same place where he was.
7. Then after that sayd he to his disciples: let us goo into Iewry agayne.
8. His disciples sayde vnto him. Master the Iewes lately sought meanes to stone the and wilt thou goo thyther agayne?
9. Iesus answered: are ther not twelve houres in ye daye? Yf a man walke in ye daye he stombleth not because he seith the lyght of this worlde.
10. But yf a ma walke in ye nyght he stombleth because ther is no lyght in him.
11. This sayde he and after yt he sayde vnto the: oure frende Lazarus slepeth but I goo to wake him out of slepe.
12. Then sayde his disciples: Lorde yf he slepe he shall do well ynough.
13. How be it Iesus spake of his deeth: but they thought yt he had spoke of ye naturall slepe.
14. Then sayde Iesus vnto the playnly Lazarus is deed
15. and I am glad for youre sakes yt I was not there because ye maye beleve. Neverthelesse let vs go vnto him.
16. Then sayde Thomas which is called Dydimus vnto ye disciples: let vs also goo that we maye dye wt him
17. Then went Iesus and founde that he had lyne in his grave foure dayes already.
18. Bethanie was nye vnto Ierusalem aboute. xv. furlonges of
19. and many of the Iewes were come to Martha and Mary to comforte them over their brother.
20. Martha assone as she hearde yt Iesus was comynge went and met him: but Mary sate still in the housse.
21. Then sayde Martha vnto Iesus: Lorde yf thou haddest bene here my brother had not bene deed:
22. but neverthelesse I knowe that whatsoever thou axest of God God will geve it the.
23. Iesus sayde vnto her: Thy brother shall ryse agayne.
24. Martha sayde vnto him: I knowe that he shall ryse agayne in the resurreccion at the last daye.
25. Iesus sayde vnto her: I am the resurreccion and the lyfe: He that beleveth on me ye though he were deed yet shall he lyve.
26. And whosoever lyveth and belevest on me shall never dye. Beleveth thou this?
27. She sayde vnto him: ye Lorde I beleve that thou arte Christ the sonne of god which shuld come into the worlde.
28. And assone as she had so sayde she went her waye and called Marie her sister secretly sayinge: The master is come and calleth for the
29. And she assone as she hearde that arose quickly and came vnto him.
30. Iesus was not yet come into the toune: but was in the place where Martha met him.
31. The Iewes then which were with her in the housse and comforted her when they sawe Mary that she rose vp hastely and went out folowed her saying: She goeth vnto the grave to wepe there.
32. Then when Mary was come where Iesus was and sawe him she fell doune at his fete sayinge vnto him: Lorde yf thou haddest bene here my brother had not bene deed.
33. When Iesus sawe her wepe and ye Iewes also wepe which came wt her he groned in ye sprete and was troubled in him selfe
34. and sayde: Where have ye layed him? They sayde vnto him: Lorde come and se.
35. And Iesus wept.
36. Then sayde the Iewes: Beholde howe he loved him.
37. And some of the sayde: coulde not he which openned the eyes of the blynde have made also that this man shuld not have dyed?
38. Iesus agayne groned in him selfe and came to the grave. It was a caue and a stone layde on it.
39. And Iesus sayd: take ye awaye the stone. Martha the sister of him that was deed sayd vnto him: Lorde by this tyme he stinketh. For he hath bene deed foure dayes:
40. Iesus sayde vnto her: Sayde I not vnto the yt if thou didest beleve thou shuldest se ye glory of God.
41. Then they toke awaye ye stone from ye place where the deed was layde. And Iesus lyfte vp his eyes and sayde: Father I thanke the because that thou hast hearde me.
42. I wot that thou hearest me all wayes: but because of the people that stonde by I sayde it yt they maye beleve that thou hast sent me.
43. And when he thus had spoken he cryed wt a loud voyce. Lazarus come forthe.
44. And he that was deed came forth bounde hand and fote with grave bondes and his face was bounde with a napkin. Iesus sayde vnto the: loowse him and let him goo.
45. Then many of the Iewes which came to Mary and had sene the thinges which Iesus dyd beleved on him.
46. But some of them went their wayes to the Pharises and tolde them what Iesus had done.
47. Then gadered the hye prestes and the Pharises a counsell and sayde: what do we? This ma doeth many miracles.
48. Yf we let him scape thus all men will beleve on him and ye Romaynes shall come and take awaye oure countre and the people.
49. And one of them named Cayphas which was the hieprest yt same yeare sayde vnto them: Ye perceave nothinge at all
50. nor yet consider that it is expedient for vs that one man dye for the people and not that all the people perisshe.
51. This spake he not of him selfe but beinge hye preste that same yeare he prophesied that Iesus shulde dye for the people
52. and not for the people only but that he shuld gader to geder in one the chyldren of God which were scattered abroode.
53. From that daye forth they held a counsell to geder for to put him to deeth.
54. Iesus therfore walked no more opely amoge the Iewes: but wet his waye thence vnto a coutre nye to a wildernes into a cite called Ephraim and there hauted with his disciples.
55. And the Iewes ester was nye at hand and many went out of the countre vp to Ierusalem before the ester to purify them selves.
56. Then sought they for Iesus and spake bitwene the selves as they stode in the teple: What thinke ye seynge he cometh not to the feast.
57. The hye prestes and Pharises had geven a comaundemet that yf eny man knew where he were he shuld shewe it that they myght take him.

== John 12 ==
1. Then Iesus sixe dayes before ester came to Bethany where Lazarus was which was deed and who Iesus raysed from deeth.
2. There they made him a supper and Martha served: But Lazarus was one of them that sate at the table with him.
3. Then toke Mary a pounde of oyntmet called Nardus perfecte and precious and anoynted Iesus fete and wipt his fete with her heer and the housse was filled of the savre of the oyntmet.
4. Then sayde one of his disciples name Iudas Iscariot Simos sonne which afterwarde betrayed him:
5. why was not this oyntmet solde for thre hondred pence and geve to the poore?
6. This sayde he not that he cared for the pooer: but because he was a thefe and kept the bagge and bare that which was geven.
7. Then sayde Iesus: Let her alone agaynst the daye of my buryinge she kept it.
8. The poore all wayes shall ye have with you but me shall ye not all wayes have.
9. Moche people of the Iewes had knowledge that he was there. And they came not for Iesus sake only but yt they myght se Lazarus also whom he raysed from deeth.
10. The hye prestes therfore held a counsell that they myght put Lazarus to deeth also
11. because that for his sake many of the Iewes went awaye and beleved on Iesus.
12. On the morowe moche people that were come to the feast when they hearde yt Iesus shuld come to Ierusalem
13. toke braunches of palme trees and went and met him and cryed: Hosanna blessed is he that in the name of the Lorde commeth kynge of Israel.
14. And Iesus got a yonge asse and sate thero accordinge to that which was writte:
15. feare not doughter of Sio beholde thy kynge cometh sittinge on an asses coolte.
16. These thinges vnderstode not his disciples at ye fyrst: but when Iesus was gloryfied then remembryd they that soche thinges were written of him and that soche thinges they had done vnto him.
17. The people that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raysed him from deeth bare recorde.
18. Therfore met him the people be cause they hearde yt he had done soche a myracle.
19. The Pharises therfore sayde amonge them selves: perceave ye how we prevayle no thinge? beholde the worlde goth awaye after him.
20. Ther were certayne Grekes amoge them that came to praye at the feast:
21. the same cam to Philip which was of Bethsayda a cyte in Galile and desired him sayinge: Syr we wolde fayne se Iesus.
22. Philip came and tolde Andrew. And agayne Andrew and Philip tolde Iesus.
23. And Iesus answered them sayinge: the houre is come yt the sonne of ma must be glorified.
24. Verely verely I saye vnto you except ye wheate corne fall into the grounde and dye it bydeth alone. Yf it dye it brengeth forth moche frute.
25. He that loveth his lyfe shall destroye it: and he yt hateth his lyfe in this worlde shall kepe it vnto lyfe eternall.
26. If eny man mynister vnto me let him folowe me and where I am there shall also my minister be. And yf eny man minister vnto me him will my father honoure.
27. Now is my soule troubled and what shall I saye? Father delyver me from this houre: but therfore came I vnto this houre
28. Father glorify thy name. Then came ther a voyce fro heaven: I have glorified it and will glorify it agayne.
29. Then sayd the people yt stode by and hearde: it thoundreth. Other sayde an angell spake to him.
30. Iesus answered and sayde: this voyce cam not because of me but for youre sakes.
31. Now is the iudgement of this worlde: now shall ye prince of this worlde be cast out.
32. And I yf I were lifte vp from the erthe will drawe all men vnto me.
33. This sayde Iesus signifyinge what deeth he shuld dye.
34. The people answered him: We have hearde of ye lawe yt Christ bydeth ever: and how sayest thou then that the sonne of man must be lifte vp? who is yt sonne of ma?
35. Then Iesus sayde vnto them: yet a lytell whyle is the light wt you. Walke whill ye have light lest the darcknes come on you. He that walketh in the darke wotteth not whither he goeth.
36. Whyll ye have light beleve on the light that ye maye be the chyldren of light. These thinges spake Iesus and departed and hyd him silfe fro them.
37. And though he had done so many myracles before them yet beleved not they on him
38. yt the sayinge of Esayas the Prophet myght be fulfilled yt he spake. Lorde who shall beleve oure sayinge? And to whom ys the arme of ye Lorde opened?
39. Therfore coulde they not beleve because yt Esaias sayth agayne:
40. he hath blinded their eyes and hardened their hertes that they shuld not se with their eyes and vnderstonde with their hertes and shuld be converted and I shuld heale the.
41. Soche thinges sayde Esaias when he sawe his glory and spake of him.
42. Neverthelesse amoge ye chefe rulers many beleved on him. But because of the pharises they wolde not be a knowen of it lest they shuld be excommunicate.
43. For they loved the prayse yt is geven of men more then the prayse that cometh of God.
44. And Iesus cryed and sayde: he that beleveth on me beleveth not on me but on him yt sent me.
45. And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.
46. I am come a light into the worlde that whosoever beleveth on me shuld not byde in darcknes.
47. And yf eny man heare my wordes and beleve not I iudge him not. For I came not to iudge the worlde: but to save ye worlde.
48. He that refuseth me and receaveth not my wordes hath one that iudgeth him. The wordes that I have spoken they shall iudge him in ye last daye.
49. For I have not spoken of my selfe: but the father which sent me he gave me a commaundemet what I shuld saye and what I shuld speake.
50. And I knowe that this comaundement is lyfe everlastinge. Whatsoever I speake therfore eve as the father bade me so I speake.

== John 13 ==
1. Before the feast of ester whe Iesus knewe that his houre was come that he shuld departe out of this worlde vnto the father. When he loved his which were in the worlde vnto the ende he loved the.
2. And when supper was ended after that the devyll had put in the hert of Iudas Iscariot Simos sonne to betraye him:
3. Iesus knowinge that the father had geve all thinges into his hondes. And that he was come from God and went to God
4. he rose from supper and layde a syde his vpper garmentes and toke a towell and gyrd him selfe.
5. After that poured he water into a basyn and beganne to wash his disciples fete and to wype them with the towell wherwith he was gyrde.
6. Then came he to Simon Peter. And Peter sayde to him: Lorde shalt thou wesshe my fete?
7. Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: what I do thou wotest not now but thou shalt knowe herafter.
8. Peter sayd vnto him: thou shalt not wesshe my fete whill ye worlde stondeth. Iesus answered him: yf I wasshe ye not thou shalt have no part with me.
9. Simon Peter sayde vnto him: Lorde not my fete only: but also my handes and my heed.
10. Iesus sayde to him: he that is wesshed nedeth not save to wesshe his fete and is clene every whit. And ye are clene: but not all.
11. For he knewe his betrayer. Therfore sayde he: ye are not all clene.
12. After he had wesshed their fete and receaved his clothes and was set doune agayne he sayde vnto them? wot ye what I have done to you?
13. Ye call me master and Lorde and ye saye well for so am I.
14. If I then youre Lorde and master have wesshed youre fete ye also ought to wesshe one anothers fete.
15. For I have geven you an ensample that ye shuld do as I have done to you.
16. Verely verely I saye vnto you the servaunt is not greater then his master nether the messenger greater then he that sent him.
17. If ye vnderstonde these thinges happy are ye yf ye do them.
18. I speake not of you all I knowe whom I have chosen. But that ye scripture be fulfilled: he that eateth breed wt me hath lyfte vp his hele agaynste me.
19. Now tell I you before it come: that when it is come to passe ye might beleve that I am he.
20. Verely verely I saye vnto you. He that receaveth who soever I sende receaveth me. And he that receaveth me receaveth him that sent me.
21. When Iesus had thus sayd he was troubled in the sprete and testified sayinge: verely verely I saye vnto you that one of you shall betraye me.
22. And then the disciples loked one on another doutinge of who he spake.
23. Ther was one of his disciples which leaned on Iesus bosome whom Iesus loved.
24. To him beckened Simo Peter that he shuld axe who it was of whom he spake.
25. He then as he leaned on Iesus brest sayde vnto him: Lorde who ys it?
26. Iesus answered he yt ys to whom I geve a soppe when I have dept it. And he wet a soppe and gave it to Iudas Iscarioth Simons sonne.
27. And after the soppe Satan entred into him. Then sayd Iesus vnto him: that thou dost do quickly.
28. That wist no ma at the table for what intent he spake vnto him.
29. Some of the thought because Iudas had the bagge that Iesus had sayd vnto him bye those thinges that we have nede af agaynst ye feast: or that he shulde geve some thinge to the poore.
30. Assone then as he had receaved the soppe he wet immediatly out. And it was night.
31. Whe he was gone out Iesus sayde: now is the sonne of man glorified. And God is glorified by him.
32. Yf God be glorified by him God shall also glorify him in him selfe: and shall strayght waye glorify him.
33. Deare chyldren yet a lytell whyle am I with you. Ye shall seke me and as I sayde vnto the Iewes whither I goo thither can ye not come. Also to you saye I nowe.
34. A newe commaundment geve I vnto you that ye love to gedder as I have loved you that even so ye love one another
35. By this shall all me knowe yt ye are my disciples yf ye shall have love one to another.
36. Simon Peter sayd vnto him: Lorde whither goest thou? Iesus answered him: whither I goo thou canst not folowe me now but thou shalt folowe me afterwardes.
37. Peter sayd vnto him: Lorde why canot I folowe the now? I will geve my lyfe for thy sake?
38. Iesus answered him: wilt thou geve thy lyfe for my sake? Verely verely I saye vnto the the cocke shall not crowe tyll thou have denyed me thryse.

== John 14 ==
1. And he sayd vnto his disciples: Let not youre hertes be troubled. Beleve in god and beleve in me.
2. In my fathers housse are many mansions. If it were not so I wolde have tolde you. I go to prepare a place for you.
3. And yf I go to prepare a place for you I will come agayne and receave you eve vnto my selfe yt where I am there maye ye be also.
4. And whither I go ye knowe and ye waye ye knowe.
5. Thomas sayde vnto him: Lorde we knowe not whyther thou goest. Also how is it possible for vs to knowe the waye?
6. Iesus sayd vnto him: I am ye waye ye truthe and ye life. And no man cometh vnto the father but by me.
7. Yf ye had knowe me ye had knowe my father also. And now ye knowe him and have sene him.
8. Philip sayd vnto him: Lorde shew vs the father and it suffiseth vs.
9. Iesus sayde vnto him: have I bene so longe tyme wt you: and yet hast thou not knowen me? Philip he yt hath sene me hath sene ye father. And how sayest thou then: shew vs the father?
10. Belevest thou not that I am in ye father and the father in me? The wordes that I speake vnto you I speakee not of my selfe: but ye father that dwelleth in me is he that doeth ye workes.
11. Beleve me that I am the father and ye father in me. At the leest beleve me for the very workes sake.
12. Verely verely I saye vnto you: he that beleveth on me the workes that I doo the same shall he do and greater workes then these shall he do because I go vnto my father.
13. And what soever ye axe in my name yt will I do yt the father might be glorified by the sonne.
14. Yf ye shall axe eny thige in my name I will do it
15. If ye love me kepe my comaundementes
16. and I will praye the father and he shall geve you a nother comforter yt he maye byde with you ever
17. which is the sprete of truthe whome the worlde canot receave because the worlde seyth him not nether knoweth him. But ye knowe him. For he dwelleth with you and shalbe in you.
18. I will not leave you comfortlesse: but will come vnto you.
19. Yet a litell whyle and the worlde seith me no moare: but ye shall se me. For I live and ye shall live.
20. That daye shall ye knowe that I am in my father and you in me and I in you
21. He that hath my comaundemetes and kepeth them the same is he that loveth me. And he yt loveth me shall be loved of my father: and I will love him and will shewe myne awne selfe vnto him.
22. Iudas sayde vnto him (not Iudas Iscarioth) Lorde what is the cause that thou wilt shewe thy selfe vnto vs and not vnto the worlde?
23. Iesus answered and sayde vnto him: yf a man love me and wyll kepe my sayinges my father also will love him and we will come vnto him and will dwelle with him.
24. He that loveth me not kepeth not my sayinges. And the wordes which ye heare are not myne but the fathers which sent me.
25. This have I spoken vnto you beynge yet present with you.
26. But that coforter which is the holy gost (whom my father will sende in my name) he shall teache you all thinges and bringe all thinges to youre remembraunce whatsoever I have tolde you.
27. Peace I leve with you my peace I geve vnto you. Not as the worlde geveth geve I vnto you. Let not youre hertes be greved nether feare ye.
28. Ye have hearde how I sayde vnto you: I go and come agayne vnto you. If ye loved me ye wolde verely reioyce because I sayde I go vnto ye father. For ye father is greater then I
29. And now have I shewed you before it come yt whe it is come to passe ye might beleve.
30. Here after will I not talke many mordes vnto you. For the rular of this worlde commeth and hath nought in me.
31. But that the worlde maye knowe that I love the father: therfore as the father gave me comaundment even so do I. Ryse let vs go hence.

== John 15 ==
1. I am the true vyne and my father ys an husbande man.
2. Every braunche that beareth not frute in me he will take awaye. And every braunche that beareth frute will he pourge yt it maye bringe moare frute.
3. Now are ye cleane thorow ye wordes which I have spoke vnto you.
4. Byde in me and let me byde in you. As ye braunche canot beare frute of it sylfe excepte it byde in the vyne: no more can ye excepte ye abyde in me.
5. I am the vyne and ye are the braunches. He that abydeth in me and I in him the same bringeth forth moche frute. For with out me can ye do nothinge.
6. Yf a man byde not in me he ys cast forthe as a braunche and is wyddered: and men gadder it and cast it into the fyre and it burneth.
7. Yf ye byde in me and my wordes also byde in you: axe what ye will and it shalbe done to you.
8. Heare in is my father glorified that ye beare moche frute and be made my disciples.
9. As the father hath loved me eve so have I leved you. Continue in my love.
10. Yf ye shall kepe my comaudemetes ye shall byde in my love eve as I have kept my fathers comaundementes and byde in his love.
11. These thinges have I spoken vnto you yt my ioye myght remayne in you and that youre ioye might be full.
12. This is my commaundement that ye love togedder as I have loved you.
13. Gretter love then this hath no man then that a man bestowe his lyfe for his frendes.
14. Ye are my fredes yf ye do whatsoever I commaunde you.
15. Hence forth call I you not servauntes: for the servaunt knoweth not what his Lorde doeth. But you have I called frendes: for all thinges that I have hearde of my father I have opened to you.
16. Ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you and ordeyned you that ye go and bringe forthe frute and that youre frute remayne that whatsoever ye shall axe of the father in my name he shulde geve it you.
17. This comaunde I you that ye love to gedder.
18. Yf ye worlde hate you ye knowe that he hated me before he hated you.
19. Yf ye were of the worlde ye worlde wolde love his awne. How be it because ye are not of ye worlde but I have chosen you out of the worlde therfore hateth you the worlde.
20. Remember the sayinge that I sayde vnto you: the servaute is not greater then his lorde. Yf they have persecuted me so will they persecute you Yf they have kept my sayinge so will they kepe youres.
21. But all these thinges will they do vnto you for my names sake because they have not knowen him that sent me.
22. If I had not come and spoken vnto them they shulde not have had synne: but now have they nothinge to cloke their synne with all.
23. He that hateth me hateth my father.
24. If I had not done workes amoge the which none other ma dyd they had not had synne. But now have they sene and yet have hated bothe me and my father:
25. eve that the sayinge myght be fulfilled that is written in theyr lawe: they hated me wtout a cause.
26. But when the comforter is come whom I will sende vnto you fro the father which is the sprete of truthe which proceadeth of the father he shall testifie of me.
27. And ye shall beare witnes also because ye have bene with me from the begynninge.

== John 16 ==
1. These thinges have I sayde vnto you because ye shuld not be offended.
2. They shall excomunicat you: ye ye tyme shall come that whosoever killeth you will thinke that he doth God service.
3. And suche thinges will they do vnto you because they have not knowen the father nether yet me.
4. But these thinges have I tolde you that when that houre is come ye myght remember them that I tolde you so. These thinges sayde I not unto you at the begynninge because I was present with you.
5. But now I goo my waye to him that sent me and none of you axeth me: whither goest thou?
6. But because I have sayde suche thinges vnto you youre hertes are full of sorowe.
7. Neverthelesse I tell you the trueth it is expedient for you that I goo awaye. For yf I goo not awaye that comforter will not come vnto you. But yf I departe I will sende him vnto you.
8. And when he is come he will rebuke ye worlde of synne and of rightwesnes and of iudgement.
9. Of synne because they beleve not on me:
10. Of rightwesnes because I go to my father and ye shall se me no moare:
11. and of iudgement because the chefe ruler of this worlde is iudged all ready.
12. I have yet many thinges to saye vnto you: but ye canot beare them awaye now.
13. How be it when he is come (I meane the sprete of truthe) he will leade yon into all trueth. He shall not speake of him selfe: but whatsoever he shall heare that shall he speake and he will shewe you thinges to come.
14. He shall glorify me for he shall receave of myne and shall shewe vnto you.
15. All thinges that ye father hath aremyne. Therfore sayd I vnto you that he shall take of myne and shewe vnto you.
16. After a whyle ye shall not se me and agayne after a whyle ye shall se me: For I goo to the father.
17. Then sayd some of his disciples bitwene them selves: what is this yt he sayth vnto vs after a whyle ye shall not se me and agayne after a whyle ye shall se me: and that I go to the father.
18. They sayd therfore: what is this that he sayth after a whyle? we canot tell what he sayth.
19. Iesus perceaved yt they wolde axe him and sayd vnto them: This is it that ye enquyre of bitwene youre selves that I sayd after a whyle ye shall not se me and agayne after a whyle ye shall se me.
20. Verely verely I saye vnto you: ye shall wepe and lamet and the worlde shall reioyce. Ye shall sorowe: but youre sorowe shalbe tourned to ioye.
21. A woman when she traveyleth hath sorowe because her houre is come: but assone as she is delivered of the chylde she remembreth no moare the anguysshe for ioye that a man is borne in to the worlde
22. And ye now are in sorowe: but I will se you agayne and youre hertes shall reioyce and youre ioye shall no ma take fro you.
23. And in that daye shall ye axe me no question. Verely verely I saye vnto you whatsoever ye shall axe the father in my name he will geve it you
24. Hitherto have ye axed nothinge in my name. Axe and ye shall receave it: that youre ioye maye be full.
25. These thinges have I spoken vnto you in proverbes. The tyme will come when I shall no moare speake to you in proverbes: but I shall shewe you playnly from my father.
26. At that daye shall ye axe in myne name. And I saye not vnto you that I will speake vnto my father for you
27. For ye father him selfe loveth you because ye have loved me and have beleved that I came out from God.
28. I went out from the father and came into the worlde: and I leve the worlde agayne and go to ye father.
29. His disciples sayd vnto him: loo now speakest thou playnly and thou vsest no proverbe.
30. Nowe knowe we that thou vnderstondest all thinges and nedest not yt eny man shuld axe the eny question. Therfore beleve we that thou camst fro god.
31. Iesus answered them: Now ye do beleve.
32. Beholde ye houre draweth nye and is already come yt ye shalbe scatered every man his wayes and shall leave me alone. And yet am I not alone. For ye father is with me.
33. These wordes have I spoke vnto you yt in me ye might have peace. For in ye worlde shall ye have tribulacio: but be of good cheare I have over come the worlde.

== John 17 ==
1. These wordes spake Iesus and lyfte vp his eyes to heven and sayde: father the houre is come: glorify thy sonne that thy sonne maye glorify the:
2. as thou hast geve him power over all fleshe that he shuld geve eternall lyfe to as many as thou hast geven him.
3. This is lyfe eternall that they myght knowe the that only very God and whom thou hast sent Iesus Christ.
4. I have glorified ye on the erth. I have fynysshed ye worke which thou gavest me to do.
5. And now glorify me thou father wt thyn awne selfe with the glory which I had with ye yerre ye worlde was.
6. I have declared thy name vnto ye men which thou gavest me out of the worlde. Thyne they were and thou gavest them me and they have kept thy sayinges.
7. Now they knowe that all thinges whatsoever thou hast geven me are of the.
8. For I have geven vnto them the wordes which thou gavest me and they have receaved them and knowe surely that I came out from the: and doo beleve that thou dyddest send me.
9. I praye for them and praye not for the worlde: but for the which thou hast geve me for they are thyne.
10. And all myne are thyne and thyne are myne and I am glorified in the.
11. And now am I no moare in the worlde but they are in the worlde and I come to ye. Wholy father kepe in thyne awne name the which thou hast geven me that they maye be one as we are.
12. Whyll I was with the in ye worlde I kepte the in thy name. Those yt thou gavest me have I kepte and none of the is lost but that lost chylde that the scripture myght be fulfilled.
13. Now come I to the and these wordes speake I in the worlde that they myght have my ioye full in the.
14. I have geven them thy wordes and the worlde hath hated them because they are not of the worlde even as I am not of the worlde.
15. I desyre not that thou shuldest take the out of the worlde: but that thou kepe them from evyll.
16. They are not of the worlde as I am not of the worlde.
17. Sanctify the wt thy truth. Thy sayinge is truth.
18. As thou dyddest send me into the worlde even so have I sent them into the worlde
19. and for their sakes sanctify I my selfe that they also myght be sanctified thorowe the trueth.
20. I praye not for them alone: but for them also which shall beleve on me thorowe their preachynge
21. that they all maye be one as thou father arte in me and I in the that they maye be also one in vs that the worlde maye beleve that thou hast sent me.
22. And that glory that thou gavest me I have geven them that they maye be one as we are wone.
23. I in them and thou in me that they maye be made perfecte in one and that the worlde maye knowe that thou hast sent me and hast loved them as thou hast loved me.
24. Father I will that they which thou hast geven me be with me where I am that they maye se my glory which thou hast geven me. For thou lovedest me before the makynge of the worlde.
25. O ryghteous father ye very worlde hath not knowen the: but I have knowen the and these have knowen that thou hast sent me.
26. And I have declared vnto them thy name and will declare it that the love wher wt thou hast loved me be in them and that I be in them.

== John 18 ==
1. When Iesus had spoken these wordes he wet forth with his disciples over the broke Cedron where was a garden into the which he entred with his disciples.
2. Iudas also which betrayed him knewe the place: for Iesus ofte tymes resorted thyther with his disciples.
3. Iudas then after he had receaved abonde of men and ministres of the hye Prestes and Pharises came thyther with lanterns and fyerbrondes and wepens.
4. Then Iesus knowynge all thinges that shuld come on him went forth and sayde vnto them: whom seke ye?
5. They answered him: Iesus of Nazareth. Iesus sayde vnto them: I am he. Iudas also which betrayed him stode with them.
6. But assone as he had sayd vnto them I am he they went backe wardes and fell to the grounde.
7. And he axed the agayne: whome seke ye? They sayde:Iesus of Nazareth.
8. Iesus answered I sayde vnto you I am he. If ye seke me let these goo their waye.
9. That ye sayinge might be fulfilled which he spake: of the which thou gavest me have I not lost one.
10. Simon Peter had a swearde and drue it and smote the hye prestes servaunt and cut of his ryght eare. The servauntes name was Malchas.
11. Then sayde Iesus vnto Peter: put vp thy swearde into ye sheath: shall I not drinke of ye cup which my father hath geven me?
12. Then the copany and the captayne and the ministres of of the Iewes toke Iesus and bounde him
13. and led him awaye to Anna fyrst: For he was fatherelawe vnto Cayphas which was ye hye preste that same yeare.
14. Cayphas was he that gave counsell to ye Iewes that it was expediet that one man shuld dye for the people.
15. And Simon Peter folowed Iesus and another disciple: that disciple was knowen of ye hye preste and went in with Iesus into the pallys of the hye preste.
16. But Peter stode at the dore with out. Then went out that other disciple which was knowen vnto the hye preste and spake to the damsell that kept the dore and brought in Peter.
17. Then sayde ye damsell that kept the dore vnto Peter: Arte not thou one of this mannes disciples? He sayde: I am not.
18. The servauntes and the ministres stode there and had made a fyre of coles: for it was colde: and they warmed them selves. Peter also stode amonge them and warmed him selfe.
19. The hye preste axed Iesus of his disciples and of his doctrine.
20. Iesus answered him: I spake openly in ye worlde. I ever taught in ye synagoge and in the temple whyther all ye Iewes resorted and in secrete have I sayde nothynge:
21. Why axest thou me? Axe them whiche hearde me what I sayde vnto the. Beholde they can tell what I sayde.
22. Whe he had thus spoken one of ye ministres which stode by smote Iesus on the face sayinge: answerest thou the hyepreste so?
23. Iesus answered him. If I have evyll spoke beare witnes of ye evyll: yf I have well spoke why smytest thou me?
24. And Annas sent him bounde vnto Caiphas ye hye preste.
25. Simon Peter stode and warmed him selfe. And they sayde vnto him: arte not thou also one of his disciples? He denyed it and sayde: I am not.
26. One of the servauntes of the hye preste (his cosyn whose eare Peter smote of) sayde vnto him: dyd not I se the in the garden with him?
27. Peter denyed it agayne: and immediatly the cocke crewe.
28. Then led they Iesus fro Cayphas into the hall of iudgement. It was in the mornynge and they them selves went not into the iudgement hall lest they shuld be defyled but that they myght eate the paschall lambe.
29. Pylate then went out vnto the and sayde: what accusacion bringe ye agaynste this man?
30. They answered and sayd vnto him. If he were not an evyll doar we wolde not have delyvered him vnto the.
31. Then sayd Pylate vnto the: take ye him and iudge him after youre awne lawe. Then the Iewes sayde vnto him. It is not lawfull for vs to put eny ma to deeth.
32. That ye wordes of Iesus myght be fulfilled which he spake signifyinge what deeth he shuld dye.
33. Then Pylate entred into the iudgemet hall agayne and called Iesus and sayd vnto him: arte thou the kynge of ye Iewes?
34. Iesus answered: sayst thou that of thy selfe or dyd other tell it the of me?
35. Pylate answered: Am I a Iewe? Thyne awne nacion and hye prestes have delyvered ye vnto me. What hast thou done?
36. Iesus answered: my kyngdome is not of this worlde. Yf my kyngdome were of this worlde then wolde my ministres suerly fight yt I shuld not be delyvered to ye Iewes but now is my kyngdome not fro hence.
37. Pylate sayde vnto him: Arte thou a kynge then? Iesus answered: Thou sayst yt I am a kynge. For this cause was I borne and for this cause came I into ye worlde yt I shuld beare witnes vnto the trueth. And all that are of ye trueth heare my voyce.
38. Pilate sayde vnto him: what thinge is trueth? And when he had sayd yt he went out agayne vnto the Iewes and sayde vnto them: I fynde in him no cause at all.
39. Ye have a custome that I shuld delyver you one lowsse at ester. Will ye that I lowse vnto you the kynge of ye Iewes.
40. Then cryed they all agayne sayinge: Not him but Barrabas that Barrabas was a robber.

== John 19 ==
1. Then Pylate toke Iesus and scourged him.
2. And ye soudiers wounde a croune of thornes and put it on his heed. And they dyd on him a purple garment
3. and sayd: hayll kynge of the Iewes: and they smote him on the face.
4. Pylate went forthe agayne and sayde vnto them: beholde I bringe him forth to you that ye maye knowe that I fynde no faute in him.
5. Then came Iesus forthe wearynge a croune of thorne and a robe of purple. And Pylate sayd vnto them: beholde ye man.
6. When the hye Prestes and ministres sawe him they cryed sayinge: crucify him crucify him. Pylate sayde vnto them. Take ye him and crucify him: for I fynde no cause in him.
7. The Iewes answered him. We have a lawe and by oure lawe he ought to dye: because he made him selfe the sonne of God.
8. When Pylate hearde that sayinge he was the moare afrayde
9. and went agayne into ye iudgment hall and sayde vnto Iesus: whence arte thou? But Iesus gave him none answere.
10. Then sayde Pylate vnto him. Speakest thou not vnto me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify the and have power to lowse the?
11. Iesus answered: Thou couldest have no power at all agaynst me except it were geven the from above. Therfore he yt delyvered me vnto the is moare in synne.
12. And from thence forthe sought Pylate meanes to lowse him: but the Iewes cryed sayinge: yf thou let him goo thou arte not Cesars frende. For whosoever maketh hi selfe a kynge is agaynst Cesar
13. When Pylate hearde yt sayinge he brought Iesus forthe and sate doune to geve sentece in a place called the pavement: but in the Hebrue tonge Gabbatha.
14. It was the Saboth even which falleth in the ester fest and aboute the sixte houre. And he sayde vnto the Iewes: beholde youre kynge.
15. They cryed awaye with him awaye with him crucify him. Pylate sayde vnto them. Shall I crucify youre kynge? The hye Prestes answered: we have no kynge but Cesar.
16. Then delyvered he him vnto them to be crucified. And they toke Iesus and led him awaye.
17. And he bare his crosse and went forthe into a place called the place of deed mens sculles which is named in Hebrue Golgatha.
18. Where they crucified him and two other with him on ether syde one and Iesus in the myddes.
19. And Pylate wrote his tytle and put it on the crosse. The writynge was Iesus of Nazareth kynge of the Iewes.
20. This tytle reed many of the Iewes. For the place where Iesus was crucified was nye to the cite. And it was written in Hebrue Greke and Latyn.
21. Then sayde the hye prestes of ye Iewes to Pylate: wryte not kynge of the Iewes: but that he sayde I am kynge of the Iewes.
22. Pylate answered: what I have written that have I written.
23. Then the soudiers when they had crucified Iesus toke his garmentes and made foure partes to every soudier a parte and also his coote. The coote was with out seme wrought vpon thorowe out.
24. And they sayde one to another. Let vs not devyde it: but cast loostes who shall have it That the scripture myght be fulfilled which sayth. They parted my rayment amonge them and on my coote dyd cast lottes. And the soudiers dyd soche thinges in dede.
25. Ther stode by the crosse of Iesus his mother and his mothers sister Mary the wyfe of Cleophas and Mary Magdalene.
26. When Iesus sawe his mother and the disciple stondynge whom he loved he sayde vnto his mother: woman beholde thy sonne.
27. Then sayde he to ye disciple: beholde thy mother. And fro that houre the disciple toke her for his awne.
28. After that when Iesus perceaved that all thinges were performed: that the scripture myght be fulfilled he sayde: I thyrst.
29. Ther stode a vessell full of veneger by. And they filled a sponge with veneger and wounde it about with ysope and put it to his mouth.
30. Assone as Iesus had receaved of the veneger he sayd: It is fynesshed and bowed his heed and gaue vp the goost.
31. The Iewes then because it was the saboth eve that ye bodyes shuld not remayne apon ye crosse on ye saboth daye (for that saboth daye was an hye daye) besought Pylate that their legges myght be broken and that they myght be taken doune.
32. Then came the soudiers and brake the legges of the fyrst and of the other which was crucified with Iesus.
33. But when they came to Iesus and sawe that he was deed already they brake not his legges:
34. but one of the soudiers with a speare thrust him into the syde and forthwith came ther out bloud and water.
35. And he that sawe it bare recorde and his recorde is true. And he knoweth that he sayth true that ye myght beleve also.
36. These thinges were done that the scripture shuld be fulfilled: Ye shall not breake a boone of him.
37. And agayne another scripture sayth: They shall looke on him whom they pearsed.
38. After that Ioseph of Aramathia (which was a disciple of Iesus: but secretly for feare of ye Iewes) besought Pylate that he myght take doune the body of Iesus. And Pylate gave him licence.
39. And ther cam also Nicodemus which at the beginnynge came to Iesus by nyght and brought of myrre and aloes mingled to gether aboute an hundred pounde wayght
40. Then toke they the body of Iesu and wounde it in lynnen clothes with the odoures as ye maner of the Iewes is to bury.
41. And in the place where Iesus was crucified was a garden and in ye garden a newe sepulchre wherin was never man layd.
42. There layde they Iesus because of the Iewes saboth even for the sepulcre was nye at honde.

== John 20 ==
1. The morow after the saboth daye came Mary Magdalene erly when it was yet darcke vnto ye sepulcre and sawe the stone taken awaye from ye toumbe.
2. Then she ranne and came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whome Iesus loved and sayde vnto them. They have taken awaye the Lorde out of the toumbe and we cannot tell where they have layde him.
3. Peter went forth and that other disciple and came vnto the sepulcre.
4. They ranne bothe to gether and that other disciple dyd out runne Peter and came fyrst to the sepulcre.
5. And he stouped doune and sawe the lynnen clothes lyinge yet wet he not in.
6. Then came Simon Peter folowynge him and went into ye sepulcre and sawe the lynnen clothes lye
7. and the napkyn that was aboute his heed not lyinge with the lynnen clothe but wrapped togeder in a place by it selfe.
8. Then went in also that other disciple which came fyrst to the sepulcre and he sawe and beleved.
9. For as yet they knew not the scriptures that he shuld ryse agayne from deeth.
10. And the disciples wet awaye agayne vnto their awne home.
11. Mary stode with out at the sepulcre wepynge. And as she wept she bowed her selfe into the sepulcre
12. and sawe two angels in whyte sittyng the one at the heed and the other at the fete where they had layde the body of Iesus.
13. And they sayde vnto her: woman why wepest thou? She sayde vnto the: For they have taken awaye my lorde and I wote not where they have layde him.
14. When she had thus sayde she turned her selfe backe and sawe Iesus stondynge and knewe not that it was Iesus.
15. Iesus sayde vnto her: woman why wepest thou? Whom sekest thou? She supposynge that he had bene the gardener sayde vnto him. Syr yf thou have borne him hece tell me where thou hast layde him that I maye fet him.
16. Iesus sayde vnto her: Mary. She turned her selfe and sayde vnto him: Rabboni which is to saye master.
17. Iesus sayde vnto her touche me not for I am not yet ascended to my father. But goo to my brethren and saye vnto them I ascende vnto my father and youre father to: my god and youre god.
18. Mary Magdalene came and tolde the disciples yt she had sene the lorde and yt he had spoken soche thinges vnto her.
19. The same daye at nyght which was the morowe after ye saboth daye when the dores were shut where the disciples were assembled to geder for feare of the Iewes came Iesus and stode in the myddes and sayd to the: peace be with you.
20. And when he had so sayde he shewed vnto them his hondes and his syde. Then were the disciples glad when they sawe the Lorde.
21. Then sayde Iesus to them agayne: peace be with you. As my father sent me even so sende I you.
22. And when he had sayde that he brethed on them and sayde vnto the: Receave ye holy goost.
23. Whosoevers synnes ye remyt they are remitted vnto the. And whosoevers synnes ye retayne they are retayned.
24. But Thomas one of ye twelve called Didymus was not with the when Iesus came.
25. The other disciples sayd vnto him: we have sene ye lorde. And he sayde vnto the: except I se in his hondes the prent of the nayles and put my fynger in the holes of the nayles and thrust my honde into his syde I will not beleve.
26. And after.viii. dayes agayne his disciples were with in and Thomas with them. Then came Iesus when the dores were shut and stode in the myddes and sayde: peace be with you.
27. After that sayde he to Thomas: bringe thy fynger hether and se my hondes and bringe thy honde and thrust it into my syde and be not faythlesse but belevynge.
28. Thomas answered and sayde vnto him: my Lorde and my God.
29. Iesus sayde vnto him. Thomas because thou hast sene me therfore thou belevest: Happy are they that have not sene and yet beleve.
30. And many other signes dyd Iesus in the presence of his disciples which are not written in this boke.
31. These are written that ye myght beleve that Iesus is Christ the sonne of God and that in belevynge ye myght have lyfe thorowe his name.

== John 21 ==
1. After that Iesus shewed him selfe agayne at the see of Tyberias. And on this wyse shewed he him selfe.
2. There were to geder Simon Peter and Thomas which is called Didymus: and Nathanael of Cana a citie of Galile and the sonnes of Zebedei and two other of the disciples.
3. Simon Peter sayde vnto them: I goo a fysshynge. They sayde vnto him: we also will goo with the. They wet their waye and entred into a shippe strayght waye and that nyght caught they nothinge.
4. But when the mornynge was now come Iesus stode on the shore: neverthelesse the disciples knewe not yt it was Iesus.
5. Iesus sayde vnto the: syrs have ye eny meate? They answered him no.
6. And he sayde vnto them: cast out ye net on the ryght syde of the ship and ye shall fynde. They cast out and anone they were not able to drawe it for ye multitude of fysshes
7. Then sayde the disciple whom Iesus loved vnto Peter: It is the Lorde. When Simon Peter hearde that it was ye lorde he gyrde his mantell to him (for he was naked) and sprange into the see
8. The other disciples came by ship: for they were not farre from londe but as it were two hondred cubites and they drewe the net with fysshes.
9. Assone as they were come to londe they sawe hoot coles and fysshe layd ther on and breed.
10. Iesus sayde vnto them: bringe of the fysshe which ye have now caught.
11. Simon Peter stepped forthe and drewe the net to londe full of greate fysshes an hondred and.liii. And for all ther were so many yet was not the net broken.
12. Iesus sayde vnto them: come and dyne. And none of the disciples durste axe him: what arte thou? For they knewe that it was the lorde.
13. Iesus then came and toke breed and gave them and fysshe lykwyse
14. And this is now the thyrde tyme that Iesus appered to his disciples after that he was rysen agayne from deeth.
15. When they had dyned Iesus sayde to Simon Peter: Simon Ioana lovest thou me more then these? He sayde vnto him: ye Lorde thou knowest that I love the. He sayde vnto him: fede my lambes.
16. He sayde to him agayne the seconde tyme: Simo Ioana lovest thou me? He sayde vnto him: ye lorde thou knowest that I love ye. He sayde vnto him: fede my shepe.
17. He sayde vnto him ye thyrde tyme: Simon Ioanna lovest thou me? And Peter sorowed because he sayde to him ye thyrde tyme lovest thou me and sayde vnto him: Lorde thou knowest all thinge thou knowest that I love the. Iesus sayde vnto him: fede my shepe.
18. Verely verely I saye vnto the when thou wast yonge thou gerdedst thy selfe and walkedst whyther thou woldest: but when thou arte olde thou shalt stretche forthe thy hondes and a nother shall gyrde ye and leade the whyther thou woldest not.
19. That spake he signifyinge by what deeth he shuld glorify God.And whe he had sayde thus he sayd to him folowe me.
20. Peter turned about and sawe that disciple who Iesus loved folowynge: which also lened on his brest at supper and sayde: Lorde which is he yt shall betraye the?
21. When Peter sawe him he sayde to Iesus: Lorde what shall he here do?
22. Iesus sayd vnto him Yf I will have him to tary tyll I come what is that to the? folowe thou me.
23. Then went this sayinge a broode amonge the brethren that that disciple shulde not dye. Yet Iesus sayde not to him he shall not dye: but yf I will that he tary tyll I come what is that to the?
24. The same disciple is he which testifieth of these thinges and wrote these thinges. And we knowe that his testimony is true.
25. There are also many other thinges which Iesus dyd: the which yf they shuld be written every won I suppose the worlde coulde not cotayne the bokes that shuld be written.

== Acts 1 ==
1. In the former treatise (Deare frende Theophilus) I have written of all that Iesus beganne to do and teache
2. vntyll the daye in the which he was taken vp after that he thorowe the holy goost had geven commaundementes vnto the Apostles which he had chosen:
3. to whom also he shewed him selfe alyve after his passion by many tokens apperynge vnto them fourty dayes and speakynge of the kyngdome of god
4. and gaddered them togeder and commaunded the that they shuld not departe from Ierusalem: but to wayte for ye promys of the father whereof ye have herde of me.
5. For Iohn baptised wt water: but ye shalbe baptised with the holy goost and that with in this feawe dayes.
6. When they were come togeder they axed of him sayinge: Lorde wilt thou at this tyme restore agayne ye kyngdome to Israel?
7. And he sayde vnto them: It is not for you to knowe the tymes or the seasons which ye father hath put in his awne power:
8. but ye shall receave power of the holy goost which shall come on you. And ye shall be witnesses vnto me in Ierusalem and in all Iewrye and in Samary and even vnto the worldes ende.
9. And when he had spoken these thinges whyll they behelde he was take vp and a cloude receaved him vp out of their sight.
10. And while they looked stedfastly vp to heaven as he went beholde two men stode by them in white apparell
11. which also sayde: ye men of Galile why stonde ye gasinge vp into heave? This same Iesus which is taken vp fro you in to heaven shall so come even as ye haue sene him goo into heaven.
12. Then returned they vnto Ierusalem from mount olivete which is nye to Ierusalem coteyninge a Saboth dayes iorney.
13. And when they were come in they went vp into a parler where abode both Peter and Iames Iohn and Andrew Philip and Thomas Bartlemew and Mathew Iames the sonne of Alpheus and Simo Zelotes and Iudas Iames sonne.
14. These all cotinued with one acorde in prayer and supplicacion with the wemen and Mary the mother of Iesu and with his brethren.
15. And in those dayes Peter stode vp in the myddes of the disciples and sayde (the noumbre of names that were to gether were aboute an hondred and twenty)
16. Ye men and brethren this scripture must have nedes ben fulfilled which the holy goost thorow ye mouth of David spake before of Iudas which was gyde to them that tooke Iesus.
17. For he was noubred with vs and had obtayned fellouship in this ministracion.
18. And the same hath now possessed a plot of grounde with the rewarde of iniquite and when he was hanged brast a sondre in ye myddes and all his bowels gusshed oute.
19. And it is knowe vnto all the inhabiters of Ierusalem: in so moche that that felde is called in their mother tonge Acheldama that is to saye the bloud felde.
20. It is written in the boke of Psalmes: His habitacio be voyde and no man be dwellinge therin: and his bisshoprycke let another take.
21. Wherfore of these me which have copanyed with vs all ye tyme that the Lorde Iesus wet in and out amonge vs
22. begynninge at the baptyme of Iohn vnto that same daye that he was taken vp from vs must one be ordeyned to be are witnes with vs of his resurreccion.
23. And they appoynted two Ioseph called Barsabas (whose syr name was Iustus) and Mathias.
24. And they prayed sayinge: thou Lorde which knowest the hertes of all me shewe whether of these two thou hast chosen
25. that the one maye take the roume of this ministracion and apostleshippe from the which Iudas by transgression fell that he myght go to his awne place.
26. And they gave forthe their lottes and the lot fell on Mathias and he was counted with the eleven Apostles.

== Acts 2 ==
1. Whe the fyftith daye was come they were all with one accorde togeder in one place.
2. And sodenly ther cam a sounde from heaven as it had bene the comminge of a myghty wynde and it filled all the housse where they sate.
3. And ther appered vnto them cloven tonges lyke as they had bene fyre and it sate vpon eache of them:
4. and they were all filled with the holy goost and beganne to speake with other tonges even as the sprete gave them vtteraunce.
5. And ther were dwellinge at Ierusalem Iewes devoute men which were of all nacions vnder heaven.
6. When this was noysed aboute the multitude came to gether and were astonyed because that every man hearde the speake his awne touge.
7. They wondred all and marveyled sayinge amoge them selves: Beholde are not all these which speake of Galile?
8. And how heare we every man his awne touge wherein we were boren?
9. Parthians Medes and Elamytes and the inhabiters of Mesopotamia of Iury and of Capadocia of Ponthus and Asia
10. Phrigia Pamphilia and of Egypte and of the parties of Libia which is besyde Syrene and straungers of Rome Iewes and convertes
11. Grekes and Arabians: we have herde them speake with oure awne tonges the greate workes of God.
12. They were all amased and wondred sayinge one to another: what meaneth this?
13. Other mocked the sayinge: they are full of newe wyne.
14. But Peter stepped forth with the eleve and lift vp his voyce and sayde vnto them: Ye men of Iewrye and all ye that inhabite Ierusalem: be this knowe vnto you and with youre eares heare my wordes.
15. These are not dronken as ye suppose: for it is yet but the thyrde houre of ye daye.
16. But this is that which was spoken by ye Prophete Iohel:
17. It shalbe in the last dayes sayth God: of my sprete I will powre out vpon all flesshe. And youre sonnes and youre doughters shall prophesy and youre yoge men shall se visions and youre olde me shall dreme dremes.
18. And on my servauts and on my honde maydens I will powre out of my sprete in those dayes and they shall prophesye.
19. And I will shewe wonders in heaven a bove and tokens in the erth benethe bloud and fyre and the vapour of smoke.
20. The sunne shalbe turned into darknes and the mone into bloud before that greate and notable daye of the Lorde come.
21. And it shalbe that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lorde shalbe saved.
22. Ye men of Israel heare these wordes. Iesus of Nazareth a ma approved of God amoge you with myracles wondres and signes which God dyd by him in ye myddes of you as ye youre selves knowe:
23. him have ye taken by the hondes of vnrightewes persones after he was delivered by the determinat counsell and foreknoweledge of God and have crucified and slayne:
24. whom God hath raysed vp and lowsed the sorowes of deeth because it was vnpossible that he shuld be holden of it.
25. For David speaketh of him: Afore honde I sawe God alwayes before me: For he is on my ryght honde that I shuld not be moved.
26. Therfore dyd my hert reioyce and my tonge was glad. Moreover also my flesshe shall rest in hope
27. because thou wilt not leve my soul in hell nether wilt suffre thyne holye to se corrupcio.
28. Thou hast shewed me the wayes of lyfe and shalt make me full of ioye with thy countenaunce.
29. Men and brethren let me frely speake vnto you of the partriarke David: For he is both deed and buryed and his sepulcre remayneth with vs vnto this daye.
30. Therfore seinge he was a Prophet and knewe that God had sworne with an othe to him that the frute of his loynes shuld sit on his seat (in that Christ shulde ryse agayne in the flesshe)
31. he sawe before: and spake in the resurreccion of Christ that his soule shulde not be left in hell: nether his flesse shuld se corrupcio.
32. This Iesus hath God raysyd vp wherof we all are witnesses.
33. Sence now that he by the right honde of God exalted is and hath receaved of the father the promyse of the holy goost he hath sheed forthe that which ye nowe se and heare.
34. For David is not ascendyd into heave: but he sayde. The Lorde sayde to my Lorde sit on my right honde
35. vntill I make thy fooes thy fote stole.
36. So therfore let all the housse of Israel knowe for a suerty yt God hath made ye same Iesus whom ye have crucified lorde and Christ.
37. When they hearde this they were pricked in their hertes and sayd vnto Peter and vnto the other Apostles: Ye men and brethre what shall we do?
38. Peter sayde vnto them: repent and be baptised every one of you in the name of Iesus Christ for the remission of synnes and ye shall receave the gyfte of the holy goost.
39. For ye promyse was made vnto you and to youre chyldre and to all that are afarre even as many as ye Lorde oure God shall call.
40. And with many other wordes bare he witnes and exhorted them sayinge: Save youre selves from this vntowarde generacion.
41. Then they that gladly receaved his preachynge were baptised: and the same daye ther were added vnto them aboute thre thousande soules.
42. And they continued in the Apostles doctrine and felloushippe and in breakinge of breed and in prayer.
43. And feare came over every soule. And many wondres and signes were shewed by the Apostles.
44. And all that beleved kept them selves to gedder and had all thinges comen
45. and solde their possessions and goodes and departed them to all men as every man had nede.
46. And they continued dayly with one acorde in the teple and brake breed in every housse and dyd eate their meate to gedder with gladnes and singlenes of hert
47. praysinge God and had faveour with all the people. And the Lorde added to ye congregacion dayly soche as shuld be saved.

== Acts 3 ==
1. Peter and Iohn went up togedder into the teple at the nynthe houre of prayer.
2. And ther was a certayne man halt from his mothers wobe who they brought and layde at the gate of the temple called beutifull to axe almes of them that entred into the temple.
3. Which same when he sawe Peter and Iohn that they wolde in to the teple desyred to receave an almes.
4. And Peter fastened his eyes on him with Iohn and sayde: looke on vs.
5. And he gaue hede vnto the trustinge to receave somthinge of them.
6. Then sayd Peter: Silver and golde have I none suche as I have geve I the. In the name of Iesu Christ of Nazareth ryse vp and walke.
7. And he toke him by the right honde and lifte him vp. And immediatly his fete and ancle bones receaved strenght.
8. And he sprage stode and also walked and entred with them into the temple walkinge and leapinge and laudynge God.
9. And all the people sawe him walke and laude God.
10. And they knewe him that it was he which sate and begged at the beutifull gate of the temple. And they wondred and were sore astonnyed at that which had happened vnto him.
11. And as ye halt which was healed helde Peter and Iohn all the people ranne amased vnto them in Salomons porche.
12. When Peter sawe that he answered vnto the people. Ye men of Israel why marvayle ye at this or why looke ye so stedfastly on vs as though by oure awne power or holynes we had made this man goo?
13. The God of Abraham Isaac and Iacob the God of oure fathers hath glorified his sonne Iesus whom ye delyvered and denyed in the presence of Pylate whe he had iudged him to be lowsed.
14. But ye denyed the holy and iust and desyred a mortherar to be geven you
15. and kylled the Lorde of lyfe whom God hath raysed from deeth of the which we are wytnesses.
16. And his name thorow the fayth of his name hath made this man sound whom ye se and knowe. And the fayth which is by him hath geven to him this health in the presence of you all.
17. And now brethre I wote well that thorow ignorauce ye did it as dyd also youre heddes.
18. But those thinges which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his Prophetes how yt Christ shuld suffre he hath thus wyse fulfilled.
19. Repent ye therfore and turne yt youre synnes maye be done awaye when the tyme of refresshinge commeth which we shall have of the presence of the Lorde
20. and when God shall sende him which before was preached vnto you that is to wit Iesus Christ
21. which must receave heave vntyll the tyme yt all thinges which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy Prophetes sence the worlde began be restored agayne.
22. For Moses sayd vnto the fathers: A Prophet shall the Lorde youre God rayse vp vnto you even of youre brethren lyke vnto me: him shall ye heare in all thinges whatsoever he shall saye vnto you.
23. For the tyme will come yt every soule which shall not heare that same Prophet shalbe destroyed from amonge the people.
24. Also all the Prophetes from Samuel and thence forth as many as have spoken have in lykwyse tolde of these dayes.
25. Ye are the chyldren of the Prophetes and of the covenaunt which God hath made vnto oure fathers sayinge to Abraham: Eve in thy seede shall all the kinredes of the erth be blessed.
26. Fyrst vnto you hath God raysed vp his sonne Iesus and him he hath sent to blysse you that every one of you shuld turne from youre wickednes.

== Acts 4 ==
1. As they spake vnto the people the prestes and the rular of the teple and the Saduces came vpon them
2. takynge it grevously that they taught ye pople and preached in Iesus the resurreccion fro deeth.
3. And they layde hondes on them and put them in holde vntill the nexte daye: for it was now even tyde.
4. How be it many of them which hearde the wordes beleved and the noumbre of the men was aboute fyve thousande.
5. And it chaunsed on the morowe that their rulars and elders and Scribes
6. as Annas the chefe Prest and Cayphas and Iohn and Alexander and as many as were of ye kynred of the hye prestes gadered to geder at Ierusalem
7. and set the other before them and axed: by what power or what name have ye done this syrs?
8. Then Peter full of ye holy goost sayd vnto them: ye rulars of the people and elders of Israel
9. yf we this daye are examined of the good dede done to the sycke man by what meanes he is made whoale:
10. be yt knowen vnto you all and to the people of Israel that in the name of Iesus Christ of Nazareth whom ye crucified and whom God raysed agayne from deeth: even by him doth this man stonde here present before you whoale.
11. This is ye stone cast a syde of you bylders which is set in the chefe place of the corner.
12. Nether is ther salvacio in eny other. Nor yet also is ther eny other name geven to men wherin we must be saved.
13. When they sawe the boldnes of Peter and Iohn and vnderstode that they were vnlerned men and laye people they marveyled and they knew them that they were with Iesu:
14. and beholdinge also the ma which was healed stondinge with the they coulde not saye agaynst it.
15. But they comaunded them to go a syde out of the counsell and counceled amoge them selves
16. sayinge: what shall we do to these men? For a manifest signe is done by the and is openly knowen to all them that dwell in Ierusalem and we canot denye it.
17. But that it be noysed no farther amoge the people let us threaten and charge them that they speake hence forth to no man in this name.
18. And they called them and comaunded them that in no wyse they shuld speake or teache in the name of Iesu.
19. But Peter and Iohn answered vnto them and sayde: whether it be right in the syght of God to obeye you moare then God iudge ye.
20. For we canot but speake that which we have sene and hearde.
21. So threatened they them and let them goo and founde no thinge how to punysshe them because of the people. For all me lauded God for the myracle which was done:
22. for the man was above fourty yeare olde on whom this myracle of healinge was shewed.
23. Assone as they were let goo they came to their felowes and shewed all that the hye prestes and elders had sayde to them.
24. And when they hearde that they lyfte vp their voyces to God with one accorde and sayde: Lorde thou arte God which hast made heaven and erth the see and all that in them is
25. which by the mouth of thy servaunt David hast sayd: Why dyd the hethen rage and the people immagen vayne thinges.
26. The kynges of the erth stode vp and the rulars came to gedder agaynst the Lorde and agaynst his Christ.
27. For of a trueth agaynst thy holy chylde Iesus whom thou hast annoynted bothe Herode and also Poncius Pylate with the Gentils and the people of Israel gaddered them selves to gedder
28. for to do whatsoever thy honde and thy counsell determined before to be done.
29. And now Lorde beholde their threatenynges and graunte vnto thy servauntes with all confidence to speake thy worde.
30. So that thou stretche forth thy honde that healynge and signes and wonders be done by the name of thy holy chylde Iesus.
31. And assone as they had prayed the place moved wheare they were assembled to gedder and they were all filled with the holy goost and they spake the worde of God boldely.
32. And the multitude of them that beleved were of one hert and of one soule. Also none of them sayde that eny of the thinges which he possessed was his awne: but had all thinges commen.
33. And with greate power gave the Apostles witnes of the resurreccion of the Lorde Iesu. And greate grace was with them all.
34. Nether was ther eny amonge them that lacked. For as many as were possessers of londes or housses solde them and brought the pryce of the thinges that were solde
35. and layed yt doune at the Apostles fete. And distribucion was made vnto every man accordinge as he had nede.
36. And Ioses which was also called of the Apostles Barnabas (that is to saye the sonne of consolacion) beynge a Levite and of the countre of Cipers
37. had londe and solde it. and layde the pryce doune at the Apostles fete.

== Acts 5 ==
1. A certayne man named Ananias with Saphira his wyfe solde a possession
2. and kepte awaye parte of the pryce (his wyfe also beynge of counsell) and brought a certayne parte and layde it doune at the Apostles fete.
3. Then sayde Peter: Ananias how is it that Satan hath filled thyne hert that thou shuldest lye vnto the holy goost and kepe awaye parte of the pryce of the lyvelod:
4. Pertayned it not vnto the only and after it was solde was not the pryce in thyne awne power? How is it that thou hast coceaved this thinge in thyne herte? Thou hast not lyed vnto men but vnto God.
5. When Ananias herde these wordes. he fell doune and gave vp the goost. And great feare came on all the that these thinges hearde.
6. And the yonge men roose vp and put him a parte and caryed him out and buryed him.
7. And it fortuned as it were aboute the space of.iii. houres after that his wyfe came in ignoraunt of that which was done.
8. And Peter sayde vnto her: Tell me gave ye the londe for so moche? And she sayde: ye for so moche
9. Then Peter sayde vnto her: why have ye agreed to gether to tept the sprete of the Lorde? Beholde the fete of them which have buryed thy husbande are at the dore and shall cary the out.
10. Then she fell doune strayght waye at his fete and yelded vp the goost. And the yonge men came in and founde her ded and caryed her out and buryed her by her husbande.
11. And great feare came on all the congregacion and on as many as hearde it.
12. By the hondes of the Apostles were many signes and wondres shewed amoge the people. And they were all together with one acorde in Salomons porche.
13. And of other durst no man ioyne him selfe to them: neverthelater the people magnyfied them.
14. The noumbre of them that beleved in the Lorde bothe of men and wemen grewe moare and moare:
15. in so moche that they brought the sicke into the strettes and layde them on beddes and palettes that at the lest waye the shadowe of Peter when he came by myght shadowe some of them.
16. There came also a multitude out of ye cities roud about vnto Ierusalem bringynge sicke folkes and them which were vexed with vnclene spretes. And they were healed every one.
17. Then ye chefe preste rose vp and all they that were with him (which is the secte of the Saduces) and were full of indignacion
18. and layde hondes on the Apostles and put them in the comen preson.
19. But the angell of the Lorde by nyght openned the preson dores and brought them forthe and sayde:
20. goo steppe forthe and speake in the temple to the people all the wordes of this lyfe.
21. When they hearde that they entred into the temple erly in the morninge and taught. The chefe prest came and they that were with him and called a counsell to gedder and all the elders of the chyldren of Israel and sent to the preson to fet them.
22. When the ministres came and founde them not in the preson they returned and tolde
23. sayinge: the preson founde we shut as sure as was possible and the kepers stondynge with out before ye dores. But whe we had opened we founde no man with in.
24. When the chefe prest of all and the ruler of the temple and the hye prestes hearde these thinges they douted of them whervnto this wolde growe.
25. Then came one and shewed them: beholde ye men yt ye put in preson stonde in the teple and teache the people.
26. Then went the ruler of the teple with ministers and brought the with out violence. For they feared the people lest they shuld have bene stoned.
27. And when they had brought them they set them before the counsell. And ye chefe preste axed the
28. sayinge: dyd not we straytely comaunde you that ye shuld not teache in this name? And beholde ye have filled Ierusalem with youre doctrine and ye intende to brynge this mans bloud vpon vs.
29. Peter and the other Apostles answered and sayde: We ought moare to obey God then men.
30. The God of oure fathers raysed vp Ie Iesus whom ye slewe and hanged on tre.
31. Him hath god lifte vp with his right hand to be a ruler and a savioure for to geve repetauce to Israell and forgevenes of synnes.
32. And we are his recordes concernynge these thinges and also the holy goost whom God hath geve to them yt obey him.
33. When they hearde yt they clave asunder: and sought meanes to slee them.
34. Then stode ther vp one in ye counsell a Pharisey named Gamaliel a doctoure of lawe had in auctorite amoge all the people and commaunded to put the Apostles a syde a lytell space
35. and sayde vnto them: Men of Israel take hede to youre selves what ye entende to do as touchinge these men
36. Before these dayes rose vp one Theudas bostinge him selfe to whom resorted a nombre of men about a foure hondred which was slayn and they all which beleved him were scatred a broode and brought to nought.
37. After this man arose ther vp one Iudas of Galile in the tyme when tribute began and drewe awaye moche people after him. He also perisshed: and all even as many as harkened to him are scattered a brood.
38. And now I saye vnto you: refrayne youre selves from these men let them alone. For yf ye cousell or this worke be of men it will come to nought.
39. But and yf it be of God ye can not destroye it lest haply ye be founde to stryve agaynst God.
40. And to him they agreed and called the Apostles and bet them and comaunded that they shuld not speake in ye name of Iesu and let them goo.
41. And they departed from the counsell reioysynge yt they were counted worthy to soffre rebuke for his name.
42. And dayly in the teple and in every housse they ceased not teachinge and preachinge Iesus Christ.

== Acts 6 ==
1. In those dayes as the nombre of the disciples grewe ther arose a grudge amonge the Grekes agaynst the Ebrues be cause their wyddowes were despysed in the dayly mynystracion.
2. Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples to gether and sayde: it is not mete that we shuld leave the worde of God and serve at the tables.
3. Wherfore brethren loke ye out amoge you seven men of honest reporte and full of the holy goost and wysdome which we maye apoynte to this nedfull busynes.
4. But we will geve oure selves cotinually to prayer and to the ministracion of ye worde.
5. And the sayinge pleased the whoale multitude. And they chose Steven a man full of fayth and of the holy goost and Philip and Prochorus and Nichanor and Timon and Permenas and Nicholas a converte of Antioche.
6. Which they set before the Apostles and they prayed and layde their hondes on them.
7. And the worde of God encreased and the noubre of the disciples multiplied in Ierusalem greatly and a great company of the prestes were obedient to the faythe.
8. And Steven full of faythe and power dyd great wondres and myracles amoge ye people.
9. Then ther arose certayne of the synagoge which are called Lybertines and Syrenites and of Alexandria and of Cilicia and Asia and disputed with Steven.
10. And they coulde not resist the wysdome and the sprete with which he spake.
11. Then sent they in men which sayd: we have hearde him speake blasphemous wordes agaynst Moses and agaynst God.
12. And they moved ye people and the elders and the scribes: and came apon him and caught him and brought him to the counsell
13. and brought forth falce witnesses which sayde. This ma ceasith not to speake blasphemous wordes agaynst this holy place and the lawe:
14. for we hearde him saye: this Iesus of Nazareth shall destroye this place and shall chaunge the ordinaunces which Moses gave vs.
15. And all that sate in ye counsell loked stedfastly on him and sawe his face as it had bene the face of an angell.

== Acts 7 ==
1. Then sayde ye chefe prest: is it even so?
2. And he sayde: ye men brethren and fathers harken to. The God of glory appered vnto oure father Abraha whyll he was yet in Mesopotamia before he dwelt in Charran
3. and sayd vnto him: come out of thy contre and from thy kynred and come into the londe which I shall shewe the.
4. Then came he out of the londe of Chaldey and dwelt in Charran. And after that assone as his father was deed he brought him into this lande in which ye now dwell
5. and he gave him none inheritaunce in it no not the bredeth of a fote: but promised yt he wolde geve it to him to possesse and to his seed after him when as yet he had no chylde.
6. God verely spake on this wyse that his seade shulde be a dweller in a straunge londe and that they shulde kepe them in bondage and entreate them evyll.iiii.C. yeares.
7. But the nacion to whom they shalbe in bondage will I iudge sayde God. And after that shall they come forthe and serve me in this place.
8. And he gave him the covenaunt of circumcision. And he begat Isaac and circumcised him the viii. daye and Isaac begat Iacob and Iacob the twelve patriarkes
9. And the patriarkes havinge indignacio solde Ioseph into Egipte. And God was with him
10. and delivered him out of all his adversities. And gave him faveour and wisdome in the sight of Pharao kynge of Egipte which made him governer over Egipte and over all his housholde.
11. Then came ther a derth over all the londe of Egipt and Canaan and great affliccion that our fathers founde no sustenauce.
12. But when Iacob hearde that ther was corne in Egipte he sent oure fathers fyrst
13. and at the seconde tyme Ioseph was knowen of his brethren and Iosephs kynred was made knowne vnto Pharao.
14. Then sent Ioseph and caused his father to be brought and all his kynne thre score and xv. soules.
15. And Iacob descended into Egipte and dyed bothe he and oure fathers
16. and were translated into Sichem ond were put in ye sepulcre that Abraham bought for money of the sonnes of Emor at Sichem.
17. When ye tyme of ye promes drue nye (which God had sworme to Abraham) the people grewe and multiplied in Egipte
18. till another kynge arose which knewe not of Ioseph.
19. The same dealte suttelly with oure kynred and evyll intreated oure fathers and made them to cast oute their younge chyldren that they shuld not remayne alyve.
20. The same tyme was Moses borne and was a proper childe in ye sight of God which was norisshed vp in his fathers housse thre monethes.
21. When he was cast out Pharoes doughter toke him vp and norisshed him vp for her awne sonne.
22. And Moses was learned in all maner wisdome of the Egipcians and was mighty in dedes and in wordes.
23. And when he was full forty yeare olde it came into his hert to visit his brethren the chyldren of Israhel.
24. And when he sawe one of them suffre wronge he defended him and avenged his quarell that had the harme done to him and smote the Egypcian.
25. For he supposed hys brethren wolde have vnderstonde how yt God by his hondes shuld save them But they vnderstode not.
26. And the next daye he shewed him selfe vnto the as they strove and wolde have set the at one agayne sayinge: Syrs ye are brethren why hurte ye one another?
27. But he that dyd his neghbour wronge thrust him awaye sayinge: who made ye a rular and a iudge amonge vs?
28. What wilt thou kyll me as thou dyddest the Egyptian yester daye?
29. Then fleed Moses at that sayenge and was a stranger in the londe of Madian where he begat two sonnes.
30. And when.xl. yeares were expired ther appered to him in the wyldernes of mounte Syna an angell of the Lorde in a flamme of fyre in a busshe.
31. When Moses sawe it he wondred at the syght. And as he drue neare to beholde the voyce of the Lorde came vnto him:
32. I am ye God of thy fathers the God of Abraham the God of Isaac and the God of Iacob. Moses trembled and durst not beholde.
33. Then sayde ye Lorde to him: Put of thy showes from thy fete for the place where thou stondest is holy grounde.
34. I have perfectly sene the affliccion of my people which is in Egypte and I have hearde their gronynge and am come doune to delyver them. And now come and I will sende the into Egypte.
35. This Moses whom they forsoke sayinge: who made the a ruelar and a iudge: the same God sent bothe a ruler and delyverer by ye hondes of the angell which appered to him in the busshe.
36. And the same brought them out shewynge wonders and signes in Egypte and in the reed see and in the wyldernes.xl. yeares.
37. This is that Moses which sayde vnto the chyldre of Israel: A Prophet shall the Lorde youre God rayse vp vnto you of youre brethren lyke vnto me him shall ye heare.
38. This is he that was in ye congregacion in the wyldernes with the angell which spake to him in ye moute Syna and with oure fathers. This man receaved the worde of lyfe to geve vnto vs
39. to who oure fathers wolde not obeye but cast it from them and in their hertes turned backe agayne into Egypte
40. sayinge vnto Aaron: Make vs goddes to goo before vs. For this Moses that brought vs out of the londe of Egypte we wote not what is become of him.
41. And they made a calfe in those dayes and offered sacrifice vnto the ymage and reioysed in the workes of their awne hondes.
42. Then God turned him selfe and gave them vp that they shuld worship the starres of the skye as it is written in the boke of the prophetes. O ye of ye housse of Israel gave ye to me sacrefices and meate offerynges by the space of xl. yeares in the wildernes?
43. And ye toke vnto you the tabernacle of Moloch and the starre of youre god Remphan figures which ye made to worshippe them. And I will translate you beyonde Babylon.
44. Oure fathers had the tabernacle of witnes in ye wyldernes as he had apoynted the speakynge vnto Moses that he shuld make it acordynge to the fassion that he had sene.
45. Which tabernacle oure fathers receaved and brought it in with Iosue into the possession of the gentyls which God drave out before the face of oure fathers vnto the tyme of David
46. which founde favour before God and desyred that he myght fynde a tabernacle for the God of Iacob.
47. But Salomon bylt him an housse.
48. How be it he that is hyest of all dwelleth not in teple made with hondes as saith the Prophete:
49. Heven is my seate and erth is my fote stole what housse will ye bylde for me sayth the Lorde? or what place is it that I shuld rest in?
50. hath not my honde made all these thinges?
51. Ye stiffenecked and of vncircumcised hertes and eares: ye have all wayes resisted the holy goost: as youre fathers dyd so do ye.
52. Which of the prophetes have not youre fathers persecuted? And they have slayne them which shewed before of the commynge of that iust whom ye have now betrayed and mordred.
53. And ye also have receaved a lawe by the ordinaunce of angels and have not kept it.
54. When they hearde these thinges their hertes clave a sunder and they gnasshed on him with their tethe.
55. But he beynge full of the holy goost loked vp stedfastlye with his eyes into heven and sawe the glorie of God and Iesus stondynge on the ryght honde of God
56. and sayde: beholde I se the hevens open and the sonne of man stondynge on the ryght honde of god.
57. Then they gave a shute with a loude voyce and stopped their eares and ranne apon him all at once
58. and caste him out of the cite and stoned him. And the witnesses layde doune their clothes at a yonge mannes fete named Saul.
59. And they stoned Steven callynge on and sayinge: Lorde Iesu receave my sprete.
60. And he kneled doune and cryed with a loude voyce: Lorde laye not this synne to their charge. And when he had thus spoken he fell a slepe.

== Acts 8 ==
1. Saul had pleasure in his deeth. And at yt tyme there was a great persecucion agaynst the congregacion which was at Ierusalem and they were all scattered abroade thorowout the regions of Iury and Samaria except the Apostles
2. Then devout men dressed Steven aud made great lamentacion over him.
3. But Saul made havocke of the congregacion entrynge into every housse and drewe out bothe man and woman and thrust the into preson.
4. They that were scattered abroade went every where preachyng the worde.
5. Then came Philip into a cite of Samaria and preached Christ vnto them.
6. And the people gave hede vnto those thinges which Philip spake with one acorde in that they hearde and sawe the miracles which he dyd.
7. For vnclene spretes cryinge with loude voyce came out of many that were possessed of them. And manye taken with palsies and many yt halted were healed
8. And ther was great ioye in that cite.
9. And ther was a certayne man called Simon which before tyme in the same cite vsed witche crafte and bewitched the people of Samarie sayinge that he was a man yt coulde do greate thinges
10. Whom they regarded from ye lest to the greatest sayinge: this felow is the great power of God.
11. And him they set moche by because of longe tyme with sorcery he had mocked the.
12. But assone as they beleved Philippes preachynge of the kyngdome of God and of the name of Iesu Christ they were baptised bothe men and wemen.
13. Then Simon him selfe beleved also and was baptised and cotinued with Phillip and wondered beholdynge the miracles and signes which were shewed.
14. When ye Apostles which were at Ierusalem hearde saye that Samaria had receaved ye worde of God: they sent vnto the Peter and Iohn
15. which when they were come prayed for the that they myght receave ye holy goost
16. For as yet he was come on none of them: But they were baptised only in the name of Christ Iesu.
17. Then layde they their hondes on them and they receaved the holy goost.
18. When Simo sawe that thorowe layinge on of the Apostles hondes on them the holy goost was geven: he offered the money
19. sayinge: Geve me also this power that on whom soever I put the hondes he maye receave the holy goost.
20. Then sayde Peter vnto him: thy monye perysh with the because thou wenest that the gifte of God maye be obteyned wt money.
21. Thou hast nether parte nor felloushippe in this busines. For thy hert is not ryght in the syght of God.
22. Repent therfore of this thy wickednes and praye God that ye thought of thyne hert maye be forgeven the.
23. For I perceave that thou arte full of bitter gall and wrapped in iniquite.
24. Then answered Simon and sayde: Praye ye to the lorde for me yt none of these thinges whiche ye have spoken fall on me.
25. And they whe they had testified and preached the worde of the lorde returned toward Ierusalem and preached the gospell in many cities of the Samaritas.
26. Then the angell of the lorde spake vnto Phillip sayinge: aryse and goo towardes mydde daye vnto ye waye yt goeth doune fro Ierusalem vnto Gaza which is in ye desert.
27. And he arose and wet on. And beholde a man of Ethiopia which was a chaberlayne and of grete auctorite wt Cadace quene of ye Ethiopias and had ye rule of all her treasure came to Ierusalem for to praye.
28. And as he returned home agayne sittynge in his charet he rede Esay ye prophet
29. Then ye sprete sayde vnto Phillip: Goo neare and ioyne thy selfe to yonder charet.
30. And Philip ranne to him and hearde him rede ye prophet Esayas and sayde: Vnderstondest thou what thou redest?
31. And he sayd: how can I except I had a gyde? And he desyred Philip that he wold come vp and sit wt him.
32. The tenoure of ye scripture which he redde was this. He was ledde as a shepe to be slayne: and lyke a lambe dome before his sherer so opened he not his mouth.
33. Because of his humblenes he was not estemed: who shall declare his generacio? for his lyfe is taken fro the erthe.
34. The chamberlayne answered Philip and sayde: I praye the of whom speaketh the Prophet this? of him selfe or of some other man?
35. And Philip opened his mouth and beganne at ye same scripture and preached vnto him Iesus.
36. And as they went on their waye they came vnto a certayne water and the chamberlayne sayde: Se here is water what shall let me to be baptised?
37. Philip sayde vnto him: Yf thou beleve with all thyne hert thou mayst. He answered and sayde: I beleve that Iesus Christe is the sonne of God.
38. And he comaunded the charet to stonde still. And they went doune bothe into the water: bothe Philip and also the chamberlayne and he baptised him.
39. And assone as they were come out of the water the sprete of the lorde caught awaye Philip yt the chamberlayne sawe him no moore. And he wet on his waye reioysinge:
40. but Philip was founde at Azotus. And he walked thorow out ye countre preachynge in their cities tyll he came to Cesarea.

== Acts 9 ==
1. And Saul yet brethynge oute threatnynges and slaughter agaynst ye disciples of the lorde went vnto ye hye preste
2. and desyred of him letters to Damasco to ye synagoges: that yf he founde eny of this waye whether they were men or wemen he myght bringe them bounde vnto Ierusalem.
3. But as he went on his iorney it fortuned yt he drue nye to Damasco and sodenly ther shyned rounde about him a lyght fro heven.
4. And he fell to ye erth and hearde a voyce sayinge to him: Saul Saul why persecutest thou me?
5. And he sayde what arte thou lorde? And the lorde sayd I am Iesus whom thou persecutest it shalbe harde for ye to kycke agaynst ye pricke.
6. And he bothe tremblynge and astonyed sayde: Lorde what wilt thou have me to do? And ye Lorde sayde vnto him: aryse and goo into the cite and it shalbe tolde the what thou shalt do.
7. The men which iornayed with him stode amased for they herde a voyce but sawe no man.
8. And Saul arose from the erth and opened his eyes but sawe no man. Then ledde they him by the honde and brought him into Damasco.
9. And he was.iii. dayes with out syght and nether ate nor dranke.
10. And ther was a certayne disciple at Damasco named Ananias and to him sayde the lorde in a vision: Ananias. And the he sayde: beholde I am here lorde.
11. And the lorde sayde to him: aryse and goo into the strete which is called strayght and seke in the housse of Iudas after one called Saul of Tharsus. For beholde he prayeth
12. and hath sene in a vision a man named Ananias comynge in to him and puttynge his hondes on him that he myght receave his syght.
13. Then Ananias answered: Lorde I have hearde by many of this man how moche evell he hath done to thy sainctes at Ierusalem
14. and here he hath auctorite of the hye prestes to bynde all that call on thy name.
15. The lorde sayde vnto him: Goo thy wayes: for he is a chosen vessell vnto me to beare my name before the gentyls and kynges and the chyldren of Israel.
16. For I will shewe him how great thinges he must suffre for my names sake.
17. Ananias went his waye and entryd into ye housse and put his hondes on him and sayde: brother Saul the lorde that apperyd vnto the in the waye as thou camst hath sent me that thou myghtest receave thy syght and be filled with the holy goost.
18. And immediatly ther fell from his eyes as it had bene scales and he receaved syght and arose and was baptised
19. and receaved meate and was comforted. Then was Saul a certayne daye wt the disciples which were at Damasco.
20. And streyght waye he preached Christ in the synagoges how that he was the sonne of God.
21. All that hearde him were amased and sayde: is not this he that spoyled the which called on this name in Ierusalem and came hyther for ye entent that he shuld bringe the bounde vnto the hye prestes?
22. But Saul encreased in stregth and confounded the Iewes which dwelte at Damasco affirminge that this was very Christ.
23. And after a good whyle ye Iewes toke counsell to gether to kyll him.
24. But their layinge awayte was knowen of Saul. And they watched at the gates daye and nyght to kyll him.
25. Then ye disciples toke him by night and put him thorow the wall and let him doune in a basket.
26. And when Saul was come to Ierusalem he assayde to cople him silfe with ye discyples and they were all afrayde of hym and beleued not that he was a disciple.
27. But Bernabas toke hym and brought hym to ye apostles and declared to the how he had sene ye Lorde in ye waye and had spoke wyth hym: and how he had done boldely at damasco in the name of Iesu.
28. And he had his conuersacion with them at Ierusalem
29. and quit hym silfe boldly in the name of the lorde Iesu. And he spake and disputed wyth the grekes: and they went aboute to slee hym.
30. But when the brethren knew of that they brought hym to cesarea and sent hym forth to Tharsus.
31. Then had ye congregacios rest thorowoute all Iewry and galile and Samary and were edified and walked in the feare of the lorde and multiplied by the comforte of the holy gost.
32. And it chaunsed yt as Peter walked throughoute all quarters he ca to ye saynctes which dwelt at Lydda
33. and there he foude a certayne ma namyd Eneas whych had kepte hys bed viii. yere sicke of the palsie.
34. Then sayde Peter vnto hym: Eneas Iesus Christ make ye whole. Aryse and make thy beed. And he arose immedyatly.
35. And all that dwelt at lydda and assaron sawe hym and tourned to the lorde.
36. Ther was at Ioppe a certayne woma (whiche was a disciple named Tabitha which by interpretacion is called dorcas) the same was full of good workes and almes dedes which she did.
37. And it chaunsed in those dayes that she was sicke and dyed. When they had wesshed her and layd her in a chamber:
38. Because Lydda was nye to Ioppa and the disciples had hearde that Peter was there they sent vnto hym desyrynge him that he wolde not be greved to come vnto them.
39. Peter arose and came with them and when he was come they brought him in to ye chamber. And all ye wydowes stode roude aboute hym wepynge and shewynge the cotes and garmentes which Dorcas made whill she was with the.
40. And Peter put the all forth and kneled doune and prayde and turned him to ye body and sayde: Tabitha aryse. And she opened her eyes and whe she sawe Peter she sat vp.
41. And he gave her ye honde and lyft her up and called the sainctes and wydowes and shewed her alyve.
42. And it was knowne throwout all Ioppa and many beleved on the Lorde.
43. And it fortuned that he taryed many dayes in Ioppa with one Simon a tanner.

== Acts 10 ==
1. Ther was a certayne man in Cesarea called Cornelius a captayne of ye soudiers of Italy
2. a devoute man and one yt feared God wt all his housholde which gave moche almes to the people and prayde God alwaye.
3. The same man sawe in a vision evydetly aboute ye nynthe houre of ye daye an angell of god comynge into him and sayinge vnto him: Cornelius.
4. When he looked on him he was afrayde and sayde: what is it lorde? He sayde vnto him. Thy prayers and thy almeses ar come vp into remembraunce before God.
5. And now sende men to Ioppa and call for one Simon named also Peter.
6. He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner whose housse is by ye see syde. He shall tell the what thou oughtest to doo.
7. When the angell which spake vnto Cornelius was departed he called two of his housholde servauntes and a devoute soudier of them that wayted on him
8. and tolde them all the mater and sent them to Ioppa.
9. On the morowe as they wet on their iorney and drewe nye vnto the cite Peter went vp into the toppe of ye housse to praye aboute the.vi. houre.
10. Then wexed he an hongred and wolde have eate. But whyll they made redy. He fell into a trauce
11. and sawe heven opened and a certayne vessell come doune vnto him as it had bene a greate shete knyt at the.iiii. corners and was let doune to the erth
12. where in wer all maner of.iiii. foted beastes of the erth and vermen and wormes and foules of the ayer.
13. And ther came a voyce to him: ryse Peter kyll and eate.
14. But Peter sayde: God forbyd Lorde for I have never eaten eny thinge that is comen or vnclene.
15. And the voyce spake vnto him agayne the seconde tyme: what God hath clensed that make thou not comen.
16. This was done thryse and the vessell was receaved vp agayne into heven.
17. Whyle Peter mused in him selfe what this vision which he had sene meant beholde the men which were sent from Cornelius had made inquirance for Simons housse and stode before the dore.
18. And called out won and axed whether Simon which was also called Peter were lodged there.
19. Whyll Peter thought on this vision the sprete sayde vnto him: Beholde men seke the:
20. aryse therfore get the doune and goo with them and doute not. For I have sent them.
21. Peter went doune to ye men which were sent vnto him from Cornelius and sayde Beholde I am he whom ye seke what is the cause wherfore ye are come?
22. And they sayde vnto him: Cornelius the captayne a iust man and won that feareth God and of good reporte amonge all the people of the Iewes was warned by an holy angell to sende for the into his housse and to heare wordes of the.
23. Then called he them in and lodged them.And on ye morowe Peter wet awaye with them and certayne brethren from Ioppa accompanyed hym.
24. And the thyrd daye entred they into Cesaria. And Cornelius wayted for them and had called to gether his kynsmen and speciall frendes.
25. And as it chaunsed Peter to come in Cornelius met hym and fell doune at his fete and worshipped hym.
26. But Peter toke him vp sayinge: stonde vp: for evyn I my silfe am a ma.
27. And as he talked with him he cam in and founde many that were come to gether.
28. And he sayde vnto them: Ye do knowe how that yt ys an vnlawfull thynge for a man that is a Iewe to company or come vnto an alient: But god hath shewed me that I shuld not call eny man commen or vnclene:
29. therfore came I vnto you with oute sayege naye assone as I was sent for. I axe therfore for what intent have ye sent for me?
30. And Cornelius sayde: This daye now.iiii. dayes I fasted and at the nynthe houre I prayde in my housse: and beholde a man stode before me in bright clothynge
31. and sayde: Cornelius thy prayer is hearde and thyne almes dedes are had in remembraunce in the sight of God.
32. Sende therfore to Ioppa and call for Simon which is also called Peter. He is lodged in the housse of one Simon a tanner by the see syde ye wich assone as he is come shall speake vnto ye.
33. Then sent I for ye immediatly and thou hast well done for to come. Now are we all here present before god to heare all thynges yt are commaunded vnto the of God.
34. Then Peter opened his mouth and sayde: Of a trueth I perseave that God is not parciall
35. but in all people he that feareth him and worketh rightewesnes is accepted with him.
36. Ye knowe the preachynge that God sent vnto the chyldren of Israel preachinge peace by Iesus Christe (which is Lorde over all thinges):
37. Which preachinge was published thorow oute all Iewrye and begane in Galile after the baptyme which Iohn preached
38. how God had annoynted Iesus of Nazareth with the holy goost and with power which Iesus went aboute doinge good and healynge all yt were oppressed of the develles for God was with him.
39. And we are witnesses of all thinges which he dyd in the londe of the Iewes and at Ierusalem whom they slew and honge on tree.
40. Him God reysed vp ye thyrde daye and shewed him openly
41. not to all the people but vnto vs witnesses chosyn before of God which ate and dronke with him after he arose from deeth.
42. And he comaunded vs to preache vnto the people and testifie that it is he that is ordened of God a iudge of quycke and deed.
43. To him geve all the Prophetes witnes that thorowe his name shall receave remission of synnes all that beleve in him.
44. Whyle Peter yet spake these wordes the holy gost fell on all them which hearde the preachinge.
45. And they of ye circucision which beleved were astonyed as many as came wt Peter because that on the Gentyls also was sheed oute ye gyfte of the holy gost.
46. For they hearde them speake with tonges and magnify God. Then answered Peter:
47. can eny man forbyd water that these shuld not be baptised which have receaved the holy goost as well as we?
48. And he comaunded them to be baptysed in the name of the Lorde. Then prayde they him to tary a feawe dayes.

== Acts 11 ==
1. And the Apostles and the brethren that were thorowout Iewry harde saye that the hethen had also receaved the worde of God.
2. And when Peter was come vp to Ierusalem they of the circumcision reasoned wyth him
3. sayinge: Thou wentest in to men vncircumcised and atest with them.
4. Then Peter began and expounded ye thinge in order to the sayinge:
5. I was in the cyte of Ioppa prayinge and in a traunce I sawe a vision a certen vessell descende as it had bene a large lynnyn clothe let doune from hevin by the fower corners and it cam to me.
6. Into the which when I had fastened myn eyes I consydered and sawe fowerfoted beastes of ye erth and vermen and wormes and foules of the ayer.
7. And I herde a voyce sayinge vnto me: aryse Peter sley and eate.
8. And I sayd: God forbyd lorde for nothinge comen or vnclene hath at eny tyme entred into my mouth.
9. But the voyce answered me agayne from heven cout not thou those thinges come which god hath clensed.
10. And this was done thre tymes. And all were takin vp agayne into heven.
11. And beholde immediatly ther were thre men come vnto the housse where I was sent from Cesarea vnto me.
12. And the sprete sayde vnto me that I shuld go with them with out doutinge. Morover the sixe brethren accompanyed me: and we entred into the mas housse.
13. And he shewed vs how he had sene an angell in his housse which stod and sayde to him: Send men to Ioppa and call for Symon named also Peter:
14. he shall tell the wordes wherby both thou and all thyne housse shalbe saved.
15. And as I begane to preach ye holy goost fell on them as he dyd on vs at the begynninge.
16. Then came to my remembrauce ye wordes of the Lorde how he sayde: Iohn baptised with water but ye shalbe baptysed with the holy goost.
17. For as moche then as God gave the lyke gyftes as he dyd vnto vs when we beleved on the Lorde Iesus Christ: what was I that I shuld have with stonde God?
18. when they hearde this they helde their peace and gloryfied God sayinge: then hath God also to the gentyls graunted repentaunce vnto lyfe.
19. They which were scattryd abroade thorow the affliccion that arose aboute Steven walked thorow oute tyll they came vnto Phenices and Cypers and Antioche preachynge ye worde to no man but vnto the Iewes only.
20. Some of them were men of Cypers and Syrene which when they were come into Antioche spake vnto the Grekes and preched the Lorde Iesus.
21. And the honde of the Lorde was with them and a greate nombre beleved and turned vnto the Lorde.
22. Tydinges of these thinges came vnto ye eares of the congregacion which was in Ierusalem. And they sente forth Barnabas that he shuld go vnto Antioche.
23. Which when he was come and had sene the grace of God was glad and exhorted them all that with purpose of hert they wolde continually cleave vnto ye Lorde.
24. For he was a good man and full of the holy goost and of faythe: and moche people was added vnto the Lorde.
25. Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus for to seke Saul.
26. And when he had founde him he brought him vnto Antioche. And it chaunsed yt a whole yere they had their conversacion with the congregacio there and taught moche people: in so moche that the disciples of Antioche were the fyrst that were called Christen.
27. In those dayes came Prophetes fro Ierusalem vnto Antioche.
28. And ther stode vp one of them named Agabus and signified by the sprete that ther shuld be great derth throughoute all the worlde which came to passe in ye Emproure Claudius dayes.
29. Then the disciples every man accordinge to his abilite purposed to sende socoure vnto the brethren which dwelt in Iewry.
30. Which thinge they also dyd and sent it to the elders by the hondes of Barnabas and Saul.

== Acts 12 ==
1. In that tyme Herode the kynge stretched forthe his handes to vexe certayne of the congregacion.
2. And he kylled Iames the brother of Iohn with the swerde:
3. and because he sawe that it pleased ye Iewes he proceded forther and toke Peter also. Then were the dayes of swete breed.
4. And when he had caught him he put him in preson and delyvered him to.iiii. quaternios of soudiers to be kepte entendynge after ester to brynge him forth to the people.
5. Then was Peter kepte in preson. But prayer was made with out ceasynge of the congregacion vnto God for him.
6. And when Herode wolde have brought him oute vnto the people the same nyght slepte Peter bitwene two soudiers bounde with two chaynes and the kepers before the dore kepte the preson.
7. And beholde the angell of ye Lorde was there present and a lyght shyned in the lodge. And smote Peter on the syde and steryd him vp sayinge: aryse vp quyckly. And his cheynes fell of fro his hondes.
8. And the angell sayd vnto him: gyrde thy selfe and bynde on thy sandales. And so he dyd. And he sayde vnto him: cast thy mantle aboute the and folowe me.
9. And he came oute and folowed him and wist not that it was truthe which was done by the angell but thought he had sene a vision.
10. When they were past ye fyrst and ye seconde watche they came vnto yt yron gate yt ledeth vnto the cyte which opened to them by his awne accorde. And they went out and passed thorowe one strete and by and by the angell departed fro him.
11. And when Peter was come to him selfe he sayde: now I knowe of a surety that the Lorde hath sent his angell and hath delyvered me out of the honde of Herode and from all the waytynge for of the people of ye Iewes.
12. And as he consydred the thinge he cam to ye housse of Mary the mother of one Iohn which was called Marke also where many were gaddered to gedder in prayer.
13. As Peter knocked at the entry dore a damsell cam forth to herken named Rhoda.
14. And when she knew Peters voyce she opened not the entrey for gladnes but ran in and told how Peter stode before the entrey.
15. And they sayde vnto her: thou arte mad. And she bare them doune yt it was even so. Then sayde they: it is his angell.
16. Peter cotynued knockinge. When they had opened the dore and sawe him they were astonyed.
17. And he beckened vnto them with ye honde to holde their peace and tolde them by what meanes ye Lorde had brought him oute of the preson. And sayde: goo shew these thinges vnto Iames and to the brethren. And he departed and went into a nother place.
18. Assone as it was daye ther was no lyttell a doo amoge the soudyers what was becum of Peter.
19. When Herode had called for him and founde him not he examined the kepers and comaunded to departe. And he descended from Iewry to Cesarea and ther abode.
20. Herode was displeased with them of Tyre and Sydon. And they came all at once and made intercession vnto Blastus the kynges chamberlen and desyred peace because their countrey was norysshed by the kynges londe.
21. And upon a daye appoynted Herode arayed him in royall apparell and set him in his seate and made an oraycon vnto them.
22. And the people gave a shoute sayinge: it is ye voyce of a God and not of a man.
23. And immediatly the angell of ye Lorde smote him because he gave not God the honoure and he was eatyn of wormes and gave vp the goost.
24. And ye worde of God grewe and multiplied.
25. And Barnabas and Paul returned to Ierusalem when they had fulfilled their office and toke with them Iohn which was also called Marcus.

== Acts 13 ==
1. There were at Antioche in the congregacion certayne Prophetes and teachers: as Barnabas and Simon called Niger and Lucius of Cerene and Manahen Herode the Tetrarkes norsfelowe and Saul.
2. As they mynistred to the Lorde and fasted the holy goost sayde: separate me Barnabas and Saul for ye worke where vnto I have called them.
3. Then fasted they and prayed and put their hondes on them and let them goo.
4. And they after they were sent of the holy goost came vnto Seleutia and from thence they sayled to Cyprus.
5. And when they were come to Salamine they shewed ye worde of God in ye synagoges of ye Iewes. And they had Iohn to their minister.
6. When they had gone thorowout ye yle vnto ye cite of Paphos they foude a certayne sorserer a falce prophet which was a Iewe named Bariesu
7. which was with ye ruler of the countre won Sergius Paulus a prudet man. The same ruler called vnto him Barnabas and Saul and desyred to heare the worde of God.
8. But Elemas the sorcerar (for so was his name by interpretacion) wt stode them and sought to turne awaye the ruler fro the fayth.
9. Then Saul which also is called Paul beinge full of the holy goost set his eyes on him
10. and sayde: O full of all sutteltie and disseytfulnes the chylde of the devyll and ye enemye of all righteousnes thou ceasest not to pervert the strayght wayes of the Lorde.
11. And now beholde the honde of the Lorde is vpon the and thou shalt be blinde and not se the sunne for a season. And immediatly ther fell on him a myste and a darcknes and he went aboute sekinge them that shuld leade him by the honde.
12. Then the rular when he sawe what had happened beleved and wodred at the doctryne of the Lorde.
13. When they that were with Paule were departed by shyppe fro Paphus they cam to Perga a cite of Pamphilia: and there Iohn departed from them and returned to Ierusalem.
14. But they wandred thorowe the countres fro Perga to Antioche a cite of the coutre of Pisidia and wet in to the synagoge on the saboth daye and sate doune.
15. And after the lawe and ye Prophetes were redde ye rulers of the synagoge sent vnto them sayinge: Ye men and brethren yf ye have eny sermo to exhorte ye people saye on.
16. Then Paul stode vp and beckened with the honde and sayde: Men of Israel and ye that feare God geve audiece.
17. The God of this people chose oure fathers and exalted the people whe they dwelt as straugers in ye londe of Egypt and with a mighty arme brought them oute of it
18. and aboute the tyme of.xl. yeares suffred he their maners in the wyldernes.
19. And he destroyed. vii nacios in the londe of Canaan and devided their londe to them by lot.
20. And after warde he gave vnto them iudges aboute the space of.iiii.C. and.l. yeres vnto the tyme of Samuel ye Prophet.
21. And after that they desyred a kinge and God gave vnto them Saul the sonne of Cis a man of the tribe of Beniamin by the space of.xl. yeres.
22. And after he had put him doune he set vp David to be their kynge of whome he reported sayinge: I have founde David the sonne of Iesse a man after myne awne hert he shall fulfill all my will.
23. Of this manes seed hath God (accordinge to his promes) brought forth to the people of Israel a saviour one Iesus
24. when Iohn had fyrst preached before his cominge the baptyme of repentauce to Israel.
25. And when Iohn had fulfylled his course he sayde: whome ye thinke that I am the same am I not. But beholde ther cometh one after me whose shewes of his fete I am not worthy to lowse.
26. Ye men and brethren chyldren of the generacion of Abraham and whosoever amoge you feareth God to you is this worde of salvacio sent.
27. The inhabiters of Ierusalem and their rulers because they knewe him not nor yet the voyces of the Prophetes which are redde every Saboth daye they have fulfilled them in condepninge him.
28. And when they founde no cause of deeth in him yet desyred they Pylate to kyll him.
29. And when they had fulfilled all that were written of him they toke him doune from the tree and put him in a sepulcre.
30. But God raysed him agayne from deeth
31. and he was sene many dayes of them which came wt him fro Galile to Ierusalem. Which are his witnesses vnto the people.
32. And we declare vnto you how that ye promes made vnto the fathers
33. God hath fulfilled vnto vs their chyldre in that he reysed vp Iesus agayne eve as it is written in the fyrste psalme: Thou arte my sonne this same daye begat I the.
34. As concernynge that he reysed him vp from deeth now no more to returne to corrupcion he sayde on this wyse: The holy promyses made to David I will geve them faithfully to you.
35. Wherfore he saith also in another place: Thou shalt not soffre thyne holye to se corrupcion.
36. Howbe it David after he had in his tyme fulfilled the will of God he slepte and was layde with his fathers and sawe corrupcion.
37. But he whom God reysed agayne sawe no corrupcion.
38. Be it knowne vnto you therfore ye men and brethre that thorow this man is preached vnto you the forgevenes of synnes
39. and yt by him are all yt beleve iustified fro all thinges fro the which ye coulde not be iustified by ye lawe of Moses.
40. Beware therfore lest that fall on you which is spoken of in the Prophetes:
41. Beholde ye despisers and wonder and perishe ye: for I do aworke in youre dayes which ye shall not beleve yf a ma wolde declare it you.
42. When they were come out of the Synagoge of the Iewes the getyls besought yt they wolde preache the worde to them bitwene the Saboth dayes.
43. When the congregacion was broken vp many of the Iewes and verteous covertes folowed Paul and Barnabas which spake to them and exhorted them to cotinue in the grace of God.
44. And ye nexte Saboth daye came almoste the whole cite to gether to heare the worde of God.
45. When ye Iewes sawe the people they were full of indignacion and spake agaynst those thinges which were spoken of Paul spekinge agaynst it and raylinge on it.
46. Then Paul and Barnabas wexed bolde and sayde: it was mete that the worde of God shulde fyrst have bene preached to you. But seinge ye put it from you and thinke youre selfes onworthy of everlastinge lyfe: lo we turne to the gentyls.
47. For so hath the Lorde comaunded vs: I have made ye a light to the getyls yt thou be salvacio vnto ye ende of ye worlde.
48. The getyls hearde and were glad and glorified the worde of ye Lorde and beleved: eve as many as were ordeyned vnto eternall lyfe.
49. And ye worde of the Lorde was publisshed thorowe oute all the region.
50. But the Iewes moved ye worshypfull and honorable wemen and the chefe men of the cyte and reysed persecucio agaynst Paul and Barnabas and expelled them oute of their costes.
51. And they shouke of ye duste of their fete agaynst them and came vnto Iconiu.
52. And the disciples were filled with ioye and with the holy goost.

== Acts 14 ==
1. And it fortuned in Iconium that they went both to gether into the synagoge of ye Iewes and so spake that a gret multitude both of ye Iewes and also of the Grekes beleved.
2. But the unbelevinge Iewes steryd vp and vnquyeted the myndes of the Gentyls agaynste the brethre.
3. Longe tyme a bode they there and quyt them selves boldly with the helpe of the Lorde the which gave testimony vnto ye worde of his grace and caused signes and wondres to be done by their hondes.
4. The people of the cyte were devided: and parte helde with the Iewes and parte with the Apostles.
5. When ther was a saute made both of the gentyls and also of the Iewes with their rulers to put them to shame and to stone
6. the they were ware of it and fled vnto Listra and Derba cities of Licaonia and vnto the region that lyeth round aboute
7. and there preached the gospell.
8. And ther sate a certayne man at Listra weake in his fete beinge creple from his mothers wombe and never walkyd.
9. The same hearde Paul preache. Which behelde him and perceaved that he had fayth to be whole
10. and sayd with a loude voyce: stond vp right on thy fete. And he stert vp and walked.
11. And when the people sawe what Paul had done they lifte vp their voyces sayinge in the speache of Lycaonia: Goddes are come doune to vs in the lyknes of men.
12. And they called Barnabas Iupiter and Paul Mercurius because he was the preacher.
13. Then Iupiters Preste which dwelt before their cite brought oxe and garlondes vnto the churche porche and wolde have done sacrifise with the people.
14. But when the Apostles Barnabas and Paul herde that they rent their clothes and ran in amonge the people cryinge
15. and sayinge: syrs why do ye this? We are mortall men lyke vnto you and preache vnto you that ye shuld turne from these vanyties vnto ye lyvinge God which made heaven and erth and the see and all that in them is:
16. the which in tymes past suffred all nacions to walke in their awne wayes.
17. Neverthelesse he lefte not him selfe with outen witnes in that he shewed his benefites in gevinge vs rayne from heaven and frutefull ceasons fyllinge oure hertes with fode and gladnes.
18. And with these sayinges scase refrayned they the people that they had not done sacrifice vnto them.
19. Thither came certayne Iewes fro Antioche and Iconium and optayned the peoples consent and stoned Paul and drewe him oute of the cyte supposynge he had bene deed.
20. How be it as the disciples stode rounde about him he arose vp and cam into the cyte. And the nexte daye he departed with Barnabas to Derba.
21. After they had preached to that cite and had taught many they returned agayne to Lisira and to Iconium and Antioche
22. and strengthed the disciples soules exhortinge them to continue in the faith affyrminge yt we must thorowe moche tribulacion entre into the kyngdome of God.
23. And when they had ordened them elders by eleccion in every congregacio after they had yrayde and fasted they comended them to God on whom they beleved.
24. And they went thorow out Pisidia and came into Paphilia
25. and when they had preached the worde of God in Perga they descended in to Attalia
26. and thence departed by shippe to Antioche fro whence they were delivered vnto the grace of God to the worke which they had fulfilled.
27. When they were come and had gaddered the congregacion to gedder they rehersed all that God had done by them and how he had opened the dore of faith vnto the getyls.
28. And ther they abode longe tyme with the disciples.

== Acts 15 ==
1. Then cam certayne from Iewrie and taught the brethren: excepte ye be circumcysed after the maner of Moses ye cannot be saved.
2. And when ther was rysen dissencion and disputinge not a litle vnto Paul and Barnabas agaynst them. They determined that Paul and Barnabas and certayne other of them shuld ascende to Ierusalem vnto the Apostles and elders aboute this question.
3. And after they were brought on their waye by the congregacion they passed over Phenices and Samaria declarynge the conuersion of the getyls and they brought great ioye vnto all ye brethren.
4. And when they were come to Ierusalem they were receaved of the congregacion and of the Apostles and elders. And they declared what thinges God had done by them.
5. Then arose ther vp certayne that were of the secte of the Pharises and dyd beleve sayinge that it was nedfull to circucise them and to enioyne the to kepe ye lawe of Moses.
6. And ye Apostles and elders came to geder to reason of this matter.
7. And when ther was moche disputinge Peter rose vp and sayde vnto them: Ye men and brethren ye knowe how that a good whyle agoo God chose amoge vs that the getyls by my mouth shuld heare the worde of the gospell and beleve.
8. And God which knoweth the herte bare them witnes and gave vnto them the holy goost eve as he dyd vnto vs
9. and he put no difference bitwene them and vs but with fayth purified their hertes.
10. Now therfore why tempte ye God that ye wolde put a yoke on the disciples neckes which nether oure fathers nor we were able to beare.
11. But we beleve that thorowe the grace of the Lorde Iesu Christ we shalbe saved as they doo.
12. Then all the multitude was peased and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul which tolde what signes and wondres God had shewed amonge the gentyls by them.
13. And when they helde their peace Iames answered sayinge: Men and brethren herken vnto me.
14. Simeon tolde how God at the begynnynge dyd visit the gentyls and receaved of them people vnto his name.
15. And to this agreith ye wordes of ye Prophetes as it is written.
16. After this I will returne and wyll bylde agayne the tabernacle of David which is fallen doune and that which is fallen in dekey of it will I bilde agayne and I will set it vp
17. that the residue of men might seke after the Lorde and also the gentyls vpo whom my name is named saith ye Lorde which doth all these thinges:
18. knowne vnto God are all his workes from the begynninge of the worlde.
19. Wherfore my sentece is yt we trouble not them which fro amonge the gentyls are turned to God:
20. but yt we write vnto them yt they abstayne them selves fro filthynes of ymages fro fornicacio from straglyd and fro bloude.
21. For Moses of olde tyme hath in every cite that preache him and he is rede in the synagoges every saboth daye.
22. Then pleased it the Apostles and elders wt the whole congregacio to sende chosyn men of their owne copany to Antioche with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Iudas called also Barsabas and Silas which were chefe men amonge the brethre
23. and gave them lettres in their hondes after this maner. The Apostles elders and brethren send gretynges vnto the brethre which are of the gentyls in Antioche Siria and Celicia.
24. For as moche as we have hearde yt certayne which departed fro vs have troubled you with wordes and combred youre myndes sayinge: Ye must be circumcised and kepe the lawe to whom we gave no soche comaundemet.
25. It semed therfore to vs a good thinge when we were come to gedder with one accorde to sende chosyn men vnto you with oure beloved Barnabas and Paul
26. men that have ieoperded their lyves for the name of oure Lorde Iesus Christ.
27. We have sent therfore Iudas and Sylas which shall also tell you the same thinges by mouth.
28. For it semed good to the holy gost and to vs to put no grevous thinge to you more then these necessary thinges:
29. that is to saye that ye abstayne from thinges offered to ymages from bloud from strangled and fornicacion. From which yf ye kepe youre selves ye shall do well. So fare ye well.
30. When they were departed they came to Antioche and gaddred the multitude togeder and delyvered ye pistle.
31. When they had redde it they reioysed of that consolacion.
32. And Iudas and Sylas beinge prophetes exhorted the brethren with moche preachynge and strengthed them.
33. And after they had taryed there a space they were let goo in peace of the brethren vnto the Apostles.
34. Not with stondynge it pleasyd Sylas to abyde there still.
35. Paul and Barnabas continued in Antioche teachynge and preachynge the worde of the Lorde with other many.
36. But after a certayne space Paul sayde vnto Barnabas: Let vs goo agayne and visite oure brethren in every cite where we have shewed the worde of the Lorde and se how they do.
37. And Barnabas gave counsell to take wt them Iohn called also Marke.
38. But Paul thought it not mete to take him vnto their company whiche departed from them at Pamphylia and went not with them to the worke.
39. And the dissencion was so sharpe bitwene them that they departed a sunder one from the other: so that Barnabas toke Marke and sayled vnto Cypers.
40. And Paul chose Sylas and departed delyvered of ye brethren vnto the grace of god.
41. And he went thorowe all Cyria and Cilicia stablisshynge the congregacions.

== Acts 16 ==
1. Then came he to Derba and to Lystra. And beholde a certayne disciple was there named Timotheus a womans sonne which was a Iewas and beleved: but his father was a Greke.
2. Of whom reported well the brethren of Lystra and of Iconium.
3. The same Paul wolde yt he shuld goo forth with him and toke and circumcised him because of the Iewes which were in those quarters: for they knewe all that his father was a Greke.
4. As they went thorow ye cities they delyvered the the decrees for to kepe ordeyned of the Apostles and elders which were at Ierusalem.
5. And so were the congregacions stablisshed in the fayth and encreased in noumbre dayly.
6. When they had goone thorow out Phrigia and the region of Galacia and were forbydde of the holy gost to preach the worde in Asia
7. they came to Misia and sought to goo into Bethinia. But the sprete soffered the not.
8. Then they went over Misia and cam doune to Troada.
9. And a vision appered to Paul in ye nyght. There stode a man of Macedonia and prayed him sayinge: come into Macedonia and helpe vs.
10. After he had sene ye vision immediatly we prepared to goo into Macedonia certified yt the lorde had called vs for to preache the gospell vnto them.
11. Then lowsed we forth from Troada and with a strayght course came to Samothracia and the nexte daye to Neapolim
12. and from thence to Philippos which is the chefest citie in ye partes of Macedonia and a fre cite. We were in that cite abydynge a certayne dayes.
13. And on the saboth dayes we went out of the cite besydes a ryver where men were wont to praye and we sate doune and spake vnto the wemen which resorted thyther.
14. And a certayne woman named Lydia a seller of purple of the cite of Thiatira which worshipped God gave vs audience. Whose hert the Lorde opened that she attended vnto the thinges which Paul spake.
15. When she was baptised and her housholde she besought vs sayinge: Yf ye thinke that I beleve on the Lorde come into my housse and abyde there. And she constrayned vs.
16. And it fortuned as we went to prayer a certayn damsell possessed with a sprete that prophesied met vs which brought her master and mastres moche vauntage with prophesyinge.
17. The same folowed Paul and vs and cryed sayinge: these men are the servauntes of the most hye God which shewe vnto vs the waye of salvacion.
18. And this dyd she many dayes. But Paul not cotent turned about and sayd to the sprete: I commaunde the in the name of Iesu Christ that thou come out of her. And he came out the same houre.
19. And when her master and mastres sawe yt the hope of their gaynes was gone they caught Paul and Sylas and drue the into the market place vnto the rulars
20. and brought them to the officers sayinge: These men trouble oure cite which are Iewes
21. and preache ordinaunces which are not laufull for vs to receave nether to observe seinge we are Romayns.
22. And the people ranne on them and the officers rent their clothes and comaunded them to be beaten with roddes.
23. And when they had beaten them sore they cast them into preson comaundynge the iayler to kepe them surely.
24. Which iayler when he had receaved suche comaundment thrust them into the ynner preson and made their fete fast in the stockes.
25. At mydnyght Paul and Sylas prayed and lauded God. And the presoners hearde them.
26. And sodenly ther was a greate erth quake so that ye fonndacion of the preson was shaken and by and by all the dores opened and every mannes bondes were lowsed.
27. When the keper of ye preson waked out of his slepe and sawe the preson dores open he drue out his swearde and wolde have kylled him selfe supposynge the presoners had bene fledde.
28. But Paul cryed with a lowde voyce sayinge: Do thy selfe no harme for we are all heare.
29. Then he called for a lyght and sprange in and came tremblynge and fell doune before Paul and Sylas
30. and brought them out and sayde: Syrs what must I do to be saved?
31. And they sayde: beleve on the Lorde Iesus and thou shalt be saved and thy housholde.
32. And they preached vnto him the worde of the Lorde and to all that were in his housse.
33. And he toke them the same houre of the nyght and wasshed their woundes and was baptised with all that belonged vnto him strayght waye.
34. Whe he had brought them into his housse he set meate before them and ioyed that he with all his housholde boleved on God.
35. And when it was daye the officers sent the ministres sayinge: Let those men goo.
36. The keper of ye preson tolde this sayinge to Paul the officiers have sent worde to lowse you. Now therfore get you hence and goo in peace.
37. Then sayde Paul vnto them: they have beaten vs openly vncomdempned for all yt we are Romayns and have cast vs into preson: and now wolde they sende vs awaye prevely? Naye not so but let them come the selves and set vs out.
38. When the ministres tolde these wordes vnto the officers they feared when they hearde that they were Romayns
39. and came and besought them and brought them out and desyred them to departe out of the cite.
40. And they wet out of ye preson and entred into the housse of Lidia and whe they had sene the brethren they comforted them and departed.

== Acts 17 ==
1. As they made their iorney thorow Amphipolis and Appolonia they came to Thessalonica where was a synagoge of the Iewes.
2. And Paul as his maner was went in vnto them and thre saboth doyes declared oute of the scripture vnto them
3. openynge and allegynge that Christ must nedes have suffred and rysen agayne from deeth and that this Iesus was Christ whom (sayde he) I preache to you.
4. And some of them beleved and came and companyed with Paul and Sylas: also of the honourable Grekes a greate multitude and of the chefe wemen not a feawe.
5. But the Iewes which beleved not havynge indignacio toke vnto the evyll men which were vagabondes and gadered a company and set all the cite on a roore and made asaute vnto the housse of Iason and sought to bringe the out to the people.
6. But when they founde them not they drue Iason and certayne brethren vnto the heedes of the cite cryinge: these that trouble the worlde are come hydder also
7. which Iason hath receaved prevely. And these all do contrary to the elders of Cesar affirmynge another kynge one Iesus.
8. And they troubled the people and the officers of the cite when they hearde these thinges.
9. And when they were sufficiently answered of Iason and of the other they let the goo.
10. And the brethren immediatly sent awaye Paul and Sylas by nyght vnto Berrea. Which when they were come thyther they entred into ye synagoge of the Iewes.
11. These were the noblest of byrthe amonge the of Thessalonia which receaved the worde wt all diligence of mynde and searched ye scriptures dayly whether those thinges were even so.
12. And many of the beleved: also of worshipfull weme which were Grekes and of men not a feawe.
13. When the Iewes of Thessalonia had knowledge that ye worde of God was preached of Paul at Berrea they came there and moved the people.
14. And then by and by ye brethre sent awaye Paul to goo as it were to ye see: but Sylas and Timotheus abode there still.
15. And they that gyded Paul brought him vnto Attens and receaved a comaundment vnto Sylas and Timotheus for to come to him at once and came their waye.
16. Whyll Paul wayted for them at Attens his sprete was moved in him to se the cite geven to worshippinge of ymages.
17. Then he disputed in the synagoge wt the Iewes and with the devout persones and in the market dayly with the that came vnto him.
18. Certayne philosophers of ye Epicures and of ye stoyckes disputed with him. And some ther were which sayde: what will this babler saye. Other sayd: he semeth to be a tydynges bringer of newe devyls because he preached vnto them Iesus and the resurreccion.
19. And they toke him and brought him into Marsestrete sayinge: maye we not knowe what this newe doctrine wher of thou speakest is?
20. For thou bringest straunge tydynges to oure eares. We wolde knowe therfore what these thinges meane.
21. For all the Attenians and straungers which were there gave the selves to nothinge els but ether to tell or to heare newe tydynges.
22. Paul stode in the myddes of Marse strete and sayde: ye men of Attens I perceave that in all thinges ye are to supersticious.
23. For as I passed by and behelde the maner how ye worship youre goddes I founde an aultre wher in was written: vnto ye vnknowen god. Whom ye then ignoratly worship him shewe I vnto you.
24. God that made the worlde and all that are in it seynge that he is Lorde of heven and erth he dwelleth not in temples made with hondes
25. nether is worshipped with mennes hondes as though he neded of eny thinge seinge he him selfe geveth lyfe and breeth to all men every where
26. and hath made of one bloud all nacions of men for to dwell on all the face of the erthe and hath assigned before how longe tyme and also the endes of their inhabitacion
27. that they shuld seke God yf they myght fele and fynde him though he be not farre from every one of vs.
28. For in him we lyve move and have oure beynge as certayne of youre awne Poetes sayde. For we are also his generacion.
29. For as moche then as we are the generacion of God we ought not to thynke that the godhed is lyke vnto golde silver or stone graven by crafte and ymaginacion of man.
30. And the tyme of this ignoraunce God regarded not: but now he byddeth all men every where repent
31. because he hath apoynted a daye in the which he will iudge the worlde acordynge to ryghtewesses by that man whom he hath apoynted and hath offered faith to all men after that he had raysed him from deeth.
32. When they hearde of ye resurreccion from deeth some mocked and other sayde: we will heare the agayne of this matter.
33. So Paul departed from amonge them.
34. Howbeit certayne men clave vnto Paul and beleved amonge the which was Dionysius a senatour and a woman named Damaris and other with them.

== Acts 18 ==
1. After that Paul departed from Attens and came to Corinthu
2. and founde a certayne Iewe named Aquila borne in Ponthus latly come from Italie wt his wyfe Priscilla (because that the Emperour Claudius had comaunded all Iewes to departe fro Rome) and he drewe vnto them.
3. And because he was of the same crafte he abode with them and wrought: their crafte was to make tentes.
4. And he preached in ye synagoge every saboth daye and exhorted the Iewes and the gentyls.
5. When Sylas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia Paul was constrayned by the sprete to testifie to the Iewes that Iesus was very Christ.
6. And whe they sayde cotrary and blasphemed he shoke his rayment and sayde vnto the: youre bloud apon youre awne heeddes and fro hence forth I goo blamelesse vnto ye gentyls.
7. And he departed thence and entred into a certayne manes housse named Iustus a worshiper of god whose housse ioyned harde to ye synagoge.
8. How be it one Crispus ye chefe rular of the synagoge beleved on ye lorde with all his housholde and many of the Corinthias gave audience and beleved and were baptised.
9. Then spake the lorde to Paul in the nyght by a vision: be not afrayde but speake and holde not thy peace:
10. for I am with the and no man shall invade the that shall hurte the. For I have moche people in this cite.
11. And he continued there a yeare and sixe monethes and taught them the worde of God.
12. When Gallio was rular of the countre of Acaia the Iewes made insurreccion with one accorde agaynst Paul and brought him to the iudgement seate
13. saying: this felow counceleth men to worship God contrary to ye lawe.
14. And as Paul was about to open his mouth Gallio sayde vnto ye Iewes: yf it were a matter of wronge or an evyll dede (o ye Iewes) reason wolde that I shuld heare you:
15. but yf it be a question of wordes or of names or of youre lawe loke ye to it youre selves. For I wilbe no iudge in soche maters
16. and he drave them from the seate.
17. Then toke all the Grekes Sostenes the chefe rular of the synagoge and smote him before the iudges seate. And Gallio cared for none of tho thinges.
18. Paul after this taryed there yet a good whyle and then toke his leave of the brethren and sayled thence into Ciria Priscilla and Aquila accompanyinge him. And he shore his heed in Cenchrea for he had a vowe.
19. And he came to Ephesus and lefte them there: but he him selfe entred into the synagoge and reasoned with the Iewes.
20. When they desyred him to tary longer tyme with the he consented not
21. but bad the fare well sayinge. I must nedes at this feast that cometh be in Ierusalem: but I will returne agayne vnto you yf God will. And he departed from Ephesus
22. and came vnto Cesarea: and ascended and saluted the congregacion and departed vnto Antioche
23. and when he had taryed there a whyle he departed. And went over all the countre of Galacia and Phrigia by order strengthynge all the disciples.
24. And a certayne Iewe named Apollos borne at Alexandria came to Ephesus an eloquent man and myghty in the scriptures.
25. The same was informed in the waye of the Lorde and he spake fervently in the sprete and taught diligently the thinges of the Lorde and knewe but the baptim of Iohn only.
26. And the same began to speake boldely in the synagoge. And when Aquila and Priscilla had hearde him: they toke him vnto them and expounded vnto him the waye of God more perfectly.
27. And when he was disposed to goo into Acaia the brethren wrote exhortynge the disciples to receave him. After he was come thyther he holpe them moche which had beleved thorowe grace.
28. And myghtely he overcame the Iewes and that openly shewynge by the scriptures that Iesus was Christ.

== Acts 19 ==
1. It fortuned whyll Appollo was at Corinthum that Paul passed thorow the vpper costes and came to Ephesus and foude certayne disciples
2. and sayd vnto them: have ye receaved the holy gost sence ye beleved? And they sayde vnto him: no we have not hearde whether ther be eny holy goost or no.
3. And he sayd vnto them: wher wt were ye then baptised? And they sayd: with Iohns baptim
4. Then sayde Paul: Iohn verely bapiised with the baptim of repentaunce sayinge vnto the people that they shuld beleve on him which shuld come after him: that is on Christ Iesus.
5. When they hearde that they were baptised in the name of the lorde Iesu.
6. And Paul layde his hondes apon them and the holy gost came on them and they spake with tonges and prophesied
7. and all the men were aboute.xii.
8. And he went into the synagoge and behaved him selfe boldely for the space of thre monethes disputynge and gevynge them exhortacions of the kyngdome of God.
9. When dyvers wexed harde herted and beleved not but spake evyll of the waye and that before the multitude: he departed from them and seperated the disciples. And disputed dayly in ye scole of one called Tyranus.
10. And this contynued by the space of two yeares: so yt all they which dwelt in Asia hearde the worde of the lorde Iesu bothe Iewes and Grekes.
11. And god wrought no small miracles by the hondes of Paul:
12. so that from his body were brought vnto the sicke napkyns or partlettes and the diseases departed from the and the evyll spretes went out of them.
13. Then certayne of the vagabounde Iewes exorcistes toke apon them to call over them which had evyll spretes the name of the lorde Iesus sayinge: We adiure you by Iesu who Paul preacheth.
14. And ther were seven sonnes of one Sceva a Iewe and chefe of the prestes which dyd so.
15. And the evyll sprete answered and sayde: Iesus I knowe and Paul I knowe: but who are ye?
16. And ye man in who the evyll sprete was ranne on the and overcame the and prevayled agaynst them so that they fledde out of that housse naked and wouded.
17. And this was knowen to all ye Iewes and Grekes also which dwelt at Ephesus and feare came on them all and they magnified the name of ye lorde Iesus.
18. And many yt beleved came and confessed and shewed their workes.
19. Many of the which vsed curious craftes brought their bokes and burned the before all men and they counted the price of the and foude it fifty thousande silverlynges.
20. So myghtely grewe ye worde of god and prevayled.
21. After these thinges were ended Paul purposed in the sprete to passe over Macedonia and Achaia and to goo to Ierusalem saying: After I have bene there I must also se Rome.
22. So sent he into Macedonia two of the that ministred vnto him Timotheus and Erastus: but he him selfe remayned in Asia for a season.
23. The same tyme ther arose no lytell a do aboute that waye.
24. For a certayne man named Demetrius a silvermyth which made silver schrynes for Diana was not a lytell beneficiall vnto the craftes men.
25. Which he called to geder with the worke men of lyke occupacion and sayd: Syrs ye knowe that by this crafte we have vauntage.
26. Moreover ye se and heare that not alone at Ephesus but almost thorowe oute all Asia this Paul hath persuaded and turned awaye moche people saying yt they be not goddes which are made wt hondes.
27. So that not only this oure crafte cometh into parell to be set at nought: but also that ye temple of ye greate goddas Diana shuld be despysed and her magnificence shuld be destroyed which all Asia and the worlde worshippeth.
28. When they hearde these sayinges they were full of wrathe and cryed out saying: Greate is Diana of the Ephesians.
29. And all the cite was on a roore and they russhed in to the comen hall with one assent and caught Gayus and Aristarcus men of Macedonia Pauls companios.
30. When Paul wolde have entred in vnto the people ye disciples suffered him not.
31. Certayne also of ye chefe of Asia which were his frendes sent vnto him desyrynge him that he wolde not preace into the comen hall.
32. Some cryed one thinge and some another and the congregacion was all out of quiet and ye moare parte knewe not wherfore they were come togeder.
33. Some of the company drue forth Alexander the Iewes thrustynge him forwardes. Alexander beckened with the honde and wolde have geven ye people an answer.
34. When they knewe ye he was a Iewe ther arose a shoute almost for the space of two houres of all men cryinge greate is Diana of the Ephesians.
35. When the toune clarcke had ceased the people he sayd: ye men of Ephesus what man is it that knoweth not how that the cite of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddas Diana and of ye ymage which came fro heven.
36. Seinge then yt no man sayth here agaynst ye ought to be content and to do nothinge rasshly:
37. For ye have brought hyther these me whiche are nether robbers of churches nor yet despisers of youre goddes.
38. Wherfore yf Demetrius and the craftes men which are wt him have eny sayinge to eny man the lawe is open and ther are ruelars let the accuse one another.
39. Yf ye goo about eny other thinge it maye be determined in a lawfull cogregacion
40. For we are in ieoperdy to be accused of this dayes busines: for as moche as ther is no cause wherby we maye geve a rekenynge of this concourse of people.
41. And when he had thus spoken he let the congregacion departe.

== Acts 20 ==
1. After the rage was ceased Paul called the disciples vnto him and toke his leave of them and departed for to goo into Macedonia.
2. And when he had gone over those parties and geven them large exhortacions he came into Grece
3. and there abode.iii. monethes. And when the Iewes layde wayte for him as he was about to sayle into Syria he purposed to returne thorowe Macedonia.
4. Ther acompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berrea and of Thessalonia Aristarcus and Secundus and Gayus of Derba and Timotheus: and out of Asia Tychicus and Trophimos.
5. These went before and taryed vs at Troas.
6. And we sayled awaye fro Philippos after the ester holydayes and came vnto them to Troas in five dayes where we abode seven dayes.
7. And on the morowe after the saboth daye the disciples came to geder for to breake breed and Paul preached vnto them (redy to departe on the morowe) and cotinued the preachynge vnto mydnyght.
8. And there were many lyghtes in the chamber where thy were gaddered to geder
9. and there sate in a wyndowe a certayne yonge man named Eutichos fallen into a depe slepe. And as Paul declared he was the moare overcome with slepe and fell doune from the thyrde lofte and was taken vp deed.
10. Paul went doune and fell on him and embrased him and sayde: make nothinge ado for his lyfe is in him.
11. When he was come vp agayne he brake breed and tasted and comened a longe whyle even tyll the mornynge and so departed.
12. And they brought the youge man a lyve and were not alytell comforted.
13. And we went a fore to shippe and lowsed vnto Asson there to receave Paul. For so had he apoynted and wolde him selfe goo a fote.
14. When he was come to vs vnto Asson we toke him in and came to Mytelenes.
15. And we sayled thence and came the nexte daye over agaynst Chios. And the nexte daye we aryved at Samos and taryed at Trogilion. The nexte daye we came to Myleton:
16. for Paul had determined to leave Ephesus as they sayled because he wolde not spende ye tyme in Asia. For he hasted to be (yf he coulde possible) at Ierusalem at the daye of pentecoste.
17. Wherfore from Myleton he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the cogregacion.
18. And when they were come to him he sayde vnto the: Ye knowe fro the fyrst daye yt I came vnto Asia after what maner I have bene wt you at all ceasons
19. servynge the lorde with all humblenes of mynde and with many teares and temptacions which happened vnto me by the layinges awayte of the Ieues
20. and how I kept backe no thinge that was profitable: but that I have shewed you and taught you openly and at home in youre houses
21. witnessinge bothe to the Iewes and also to the Grekes the repentaunce toward God and faith towarde oure Lorde Iesu.
22. And now beholde I goo bounde in the sprete vnto Ierusalem and knowe not what shall come on me there
23. but that the holy goost witnesseth in every cite sayinge: yt bondes and trouble abyde me.
24. But none of tho thinges move me: nether is my lyfe dere vnto my selfe that I myght fulfill my course wt ioye and the ministracio which I have receaved of ye Lorde Iesu to testify the gospell of ye grace of god.
25. And now beholde I am sure yt hence forth ye all (thorow who I have gone preachinge ye kyngdome of God) shall se my face no moore.
26. Wherfore I take you to recorde this same daye that I am pure fro the bloude of all me.
27. For I have kepte nothinge backe: but have shewed you all the counsell of God.
28. Take hede therfore vnto youre selves and to all the flocke wherof the holy goost hath made you oversears to rule the congregacion of God which he hath purchased with his bloud.
29. For I am sure of this that after my departynge shall greveous wolves entre in amonge you which will not spare the flocke.
30. Moreover of youre awne selves shall men aryse speakinge perverse thinges to drawe disciples after the.
31. Therfore awake and remember that by the space of.iii. yeares I ceased not to warne every one of you both nyght and daye with teares.
32. And now brethren I comende you to God and to the worde of his grace which is able to bylde further and to geve you an inheritaunce amoge all them which are sanctified.
33. I have desyred no mas silver golde or vesture.
34. Ye knowe well yt these hondes have ministred vnto my necessities and to them that were wt me.
35. I have shewed you all thinges how that so laborynge ye ought to receave the weake and to remember the wordes of the Lorde Iesu howe that he sayde: It is more blessed to geve then to receave.
36. When he had thus spoken he kneled doune and prayed with them all.
37. And they wept all aboundantly and fell on Pauls necke and kissed him
38. sorowinge most of all for the wordes which he spake that they shuld se his face no moore. And they acompanyed him vnto the shyppe.

== Acts 21 ==
1. And it chaunsed that assone as we had launched forth and were departed from them we came with a strayght course vnto Choon and the daye folowinge vnto the Rhodes and from thence vnto Patara.
2. And we founde a shippe redy to sayle vnto Phenices and went a borde and set forthe.
3. Then appered vnto vs Cyprus and we lefte it on the lefte honde and sayled vnto Syria and came vnto Tyre. For there the shyppe vnladed her burthen.
4. And when we had founde brethren we taryed there.vii. dayes. And they tolde Paul thorowe ye sprete that he shuld not goo vp to Ierusalem.
5. And when the dayes were ended we departed and went oure wayes and they all brought vs on oure waye wt their wyves and chyldren tyll we were come out of the cyte. And we kneled doune in the shore and prayde.
6. And when we had taken oure leave one of another we toke shyppe and they returned home agayne.
7. When we had full ended the course fro Tyre we aryved at Ptolomaida and saluted the brethren and abode with the one daye.
8. The nexte daye we that were of Pauls copany departed and came vnto Cesarea. And we entred into the housse of Philip ye Evagelist which was one of the seve deacones and abode with him.
9. The same man had fower doughters virges which dyd prophesy.
10. And as we taried there a good many dayes there came a certayne prophete from Iurie named Agabus.
11. When he was come vnto vs he toke Pauls gerdell and bounde his hondes and fete and sayde: thus saith the holy goost: so shall ye Iewes at Ierusalem bynde the man yt oweth this gerdell and shall delyver him into the hondes of the gentyls.
12. When we hearde this both we and other of the same place besought him that he wolde not goo vp to Ierusalem.
13. Then Paul answered and sayde: what do ye wepynge and breakinge myne hert? I am redy not to be bound only but also to dye at Ierusalem for ye name of ye Lorde Iesu.
14. When we coulde not turne his mynde we ceased sayinge: the will of ye Lorde be fulfilled.
15. After those dayes we made oure selfes redy and went vp to Ierusalem.
16. There went with vs also certayne of his disciples of Cesarea and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus an olde disciple with whom we shuld lodge.
17. And when we were come to Ierusalem the brethren receaved vs gladly.
18. And on the morowe Paul wet in with vs vnto Iames. And all the elders came to geder.
19. And when he had saluted them he tolde by order all thinges that God had wrought amoge the getyls by his ministracion.
20. And when they hearde it they glorified the Lorde and sayde vnto him: thou seist brother how many thousande Iewes ther are which beleve and they are all zelous over ye lawe.
21. And they are informed of the that thou teachest all the Iewes which are amoge the gentyls to forsake Moses and sayst that they ought not to circumcise their chyldren nether to live after the customes.
22. What is it therfore? The multitude must nedes come togeder. For they shall heare that thou arte come.
23. Do therfore this that we saye to the. We have.iiii. men which have a vowe on them.
24. Them take and purifye thy selfe with them and do cost on them that they maye shave their heeddes and all shall knowe yt tho thinges which they have hearde concerninge the are nothinge: but that thou thy selfe also walkest and kepest the lawe.
25. For as touchinge the gentyls which beleve we have written and concluded yt they observe no soche thinges: but that they kepe them selves from thinges offred to ydoles from bloud fro strangled and fro fornicacion.
26. Then the nexte daye Paul toke the men and purified him selfe with them and entred into the teple declaringe that he observed the dayes of ye purificacio vntyll that an offeringe shuld be offred for every one of them.
27. And as the seven dayes shuld have bene ended ye Iewes which were of Asia when they sawe him in the teple they moved all the people and layde hondes on him
28. cryinge: men of Israel helpe. This is the man that teacheth all men every where agaynst the people and the lawe and this place. Moreover also he hath brought Grekes into the teple and hath polluted this holy place.
29. For they sawe one Trophimus an Ephesian with him in the cyte. Him they supposed Paul had brought into the teple.
30. And all the cyte was moved and the people swarmed to geder. And they toke Paul and drue him out of the teple and forthwith the dores were shut to.
31. As they went about to kyll him tydinges came vnto the hye captayne of the soudiers that all Ierusalem was moved.
32. Which immediatly toke soudiers and vndercaptaynes and ranne doune vnto them. When they sawe ye vpper captayne and the soudiers they lefte smytinge of Paul.
33. Then the captayne came neare and toke him and comaunded him to be bounde with two chaynes and demaunded what he was and what he had done.
34. And one cryed this another that amoge the people. And whe he coulde not knowe the certayntie for ye rage he comaunded him to be caryed into the castle.
35. And whe he came vnto a grece it fortuned that he was borne of the soudiers of the violence of the people.
36. For the multitude of the people folowed after cryinge: awaye wt him.
37. And as Paul shuld have bene caryed into the castle he sayde vnto the hye Captayne: maye I speake vnto the? Which sayde: canst thou speake Greke?
38. Arte not thou that Egypcian which before these dayes made an vproure and ledde out into the wildernes.iiii. thousande men that were mortherers?
39. But Paul sayde: I am a ma which am a Iewe of Tharsus a cite in Cicill a Citesyn of no vyle cite I beseche ye soffre me to speake vnto ye people.
40. When he had geve him licece Paul stode on ye steppes and beckned with the honde vuto the people and ther was made a greate silence. And he spake vnto the in ye Ebrue tonge sayinge:

== Acts 22 ==
1. Ye men brethre and fathers heare myne answere which I make vnto you.
2. Whe they hearde that he spake in ye Ebrue tonge to them they kept the moore silence. And he sayde:
3. I am verely aman which am a Iewe borne in Tharsus a cite in Cicill: neverthelesse yet brought vp in this cite at ye fete of Gamaliel and informed diligently in the lawe of the fathers and was fervent mynded to Godwarde as ye all are this same daye
4. and I persecuted this waye vnto the deeth byndynge and delyveringe into preson bothe men and wemen
5. as the chefe prest doth beare me witnes and all the elders: of whom also I receaved letters vnto the brethren and wet to Damasco to bringe them which were there bounde vnto Ierusalem for to be punysshed.
6. And it fortuned as I made my iorney and was come nye vnto Damasco aboute none yt sodenly ther shone fro heaven a greate lyght rounde aboute me
7. and I fell vnto the erth and hearde a voyce sayinge vnto me: Saul Saul why persecutest thou me?
8. And I answered: what arte thou Lorde? And he sayd vnto me: I am Iesus of Nazareth whom thou persecutest.
9. And they that were with me sawe verely a lyght and were a frayde: but they hearde not the voyce of him that spake with me.
10. And I sayde: what shall I do Lorde? And the Lorde sayde vnto me: Aryse and goo into Damasco and there it shalbe tolde the of all thinges which are apoynted for the to do.
11. And when I sawe nothynge for the brightnes of that light I was ledde by the honde of them that were with me and came into Damasco.
12. And one Ananias a perfect man and as pertayninge to the lawe havinge good reporte of all the Iewes which there dwelt
13. came vnto me and stode and sayd vnto me: Brother Saul loke vp. And that same houre I receaved my sight and sawe him.
14. And he sayde the God of oure fathers hath ordeyned the before that thou shuldest knowe his will and shuldest se that which is rightfull and shuldest heare the voyce of his mouth:
15. for thou shalt be his witnes vnto all men of tho thinges which thou thou hast sene and hearde.
16. And now: why tariest thou? Aryse and be baptised and wesshe awaye thy synnes in callinge on ye name of ye Lorde.
17. And it fortuned when I was come agayne to Ierusalem and prayde in the teple yt I was in a trauce
18. and sawe him sayinge vnto me. Make haste and get the quickly out of Ierusalem: for they will not receave thy witnes yt thou bearest of me.
19. And I sayde: Lorde they knowe that I presoned and bet in every synagoge them that beleved on the.
20. And when the bloud of thy witnes Steven was sheed I also stode by and consented vnto his deeth and kept the rayment of them that slewe him.
21. And he sayde vnto me: departe for I will sende the a farre hence vnto the Gentyls.
22. They gave him audience vnto this worde and then lifte vp their voyces and sayde: a waye wt soche a felowe fro the erth: yt is pitie that he shuld live.
23. And as they cryed and cast of their clothes and thrue dust into ye ayer
24. ye captayne bade him to be brought into the castle and commaunded him to be scourged and to be examined that he myght knowe wherfore they cryed on him.
25. And as they bounde him with thoges Paul sayde vnto the Centurion that stode by: Ys it laufull for you to scourge a man that is a Romain and vncondempned?
26. When the Centurion hearde that he went and tolde the vpper captayne sayinge: What intendest thou to do? This man is a Romayne.
27. Then the vpper captayne came and sayde to him: tell me art thou a Romayne? He sayde: Yee.
28. And the captayne answered: with a greate some obtayned I this fredome. And Paul sayde: I was fre borne.
29. Then strayght waye departed from him they which shuld have examyned him. And the hye captayne also was a frayde after he knewe that he was a Romayne: because he had bounde him.
30. On the morowe because he wolde have knowen the certayntie wherfore he was accused of the Iewes he lowsed him from his bondes and commaunded the hye Prestes and all the counsell to come together and brought Paul and set him before them.

== Acts 23 ==
1. Paul behelde the counsell and sayde: men and brethre I have lived in all good coscience before God vntill this daye.
2. The hye prest Ananias comaunded the that stode by to smyte him on the mouth.
3. Then sayde Paul to him: God smyte the thou payntyd wall. Sittest thou and iudgest me after the lawe: and commaundest me to be smytten contrary to the lawe?
4. And they that stode by sayde: revylest thou Goddes hye preste?
5. Then sayd Paul: I wist not brethren that he was the hye preste. For it is writte thou shalt not curse the rular of thy people.
6. When Paul perceaved that the one parte were Saduces and the other Pharises: he cryed oute in the counsell. Men and brethren I am a Pharisaye the sonne of a Pharisaye. Of the hope and resurreccion fro deeth I am iudged.
7. And when he had so sayde ther arose a debate bitwene the Pharisayes and ye Saduces and the multitude was devided.
8. For ye Saduces saye that ther is no resurreccio nether angell nor sprete. But the Pharisayes graunt bothe.
9. And ther arose a great crye and the Scribes which were of the Pharisayes parte arose and strove sayinge: we fynde none evyll in this man. Though a sprete or an angell hath apered to him let vs not stryve agaynst God.
10. And when ther arose greate debate the captayne fearynge lest Paul shuld have bene pluckt asondre of them comaunded the soudiers to goo doune and to take him from amonge them and to bringe him into the castle.
11. The nyght folowyng God stode by him and sayde: Be of good cheare Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Ierusalem so must thou beare witnes at Rome.
12. When daye was come certayne of the Iewes gaddered them selves to geder and made a vowe sayinge that they wolde nether eate nor drinke till they had killed Paul.
13. They were aboute.xl. which had made this conspiracio.
14. And they cam to ye chefe prestes and elders and sayde: we have boude oure selves with a vowe that we will eate nothinge vntill we have slayne Paul.
15. Now therfore geve ye knowlege to the vpper captayne and to the counsell that he bringe him forth vnto vs to morow as though we wolde knowe some thinge more perfectly of him. But we (or ever he come neare) are redy in ye meane season to kill him.
16. When Pauls sisters sonne hearde of their layinge awayte he wet and entred into the castle and tolde Paul.
17. And Paul called one of ye vnder captaynes vnto him and sayde: bringe this younge man vnto ye hye captayne: for he hath a certayne thinge to shewe him.
18. And he toke him and sayd: Paul ye presoner called me vnto him and prayed me to brige this youge ma vnto ye which hath a certayne matter to shewe ye.
19. The hye captayne toke him by the hond and wet a parte with him out of the waye: and axed him: what hast thou to saye vnto me?
20. And he sayd: the Iewes are determined to desyre the yt thou woldest brynge forth Paul to morowe into the counsell as though they wolde enquyre somwhat of him more parfectly.
21. But folowe not their mindes: for ther lyein wayte for him of the moo then.xl. men which have boude the selves wt a vowe that they will nether eate ner drinke till they have killed him. And now are they redy and loke for thy promes.
22. The vpper captayne let ye yoge man departe and charged: se thou tell it out to no man that thou hast shewed these thinges to me.
23. And he called vnto him two vnder captaynes sayinge: make redy two hondred soudiers to goo to Cesarea and horsmen threscore and ten and speare men two houndred at the thyrde houre of the nyght.
24. And delyvre them beastes that they maye put Paul on and bringe him safe vnto Felix the hye debite
25. and wrote a letter in this maner.
26. Claudius Lisias vnto ye most mighty rular Felix sendeth gretinges.
27. This man was take of the Iewes and shuld have bene killed of them. Then cam I with soudiers and rescued him and perceaved that he was a Romayne.
28. And when I wolde have knowen the cause wherfore they accused him I brought him forth into their cousell.
29. There perceaved I yt he was accused of questios of their lawe: but was not giltye of eny thinge worthy of deeth or of bondes.
30. Afterwarde when it was shewed me how that ye Iewes layde wayte for ye man I sent him strayght waye to the and gave commaundmet to his accusars yf they had ought agaynst him to tell it vnto ye: fare well.
31. Then ye soudiers as it was comaunded the toke Paul and brought him by nyght to Antipatras.
32. On the morowe they lefte horsmen to goo with him and returned vnto the castle.
33. Which when they cam to Cesarea they delivered the epistle to the debite and presented Paul before him.
34. When the debite had redde the letter he axed of what countre he was and when he vnderstode that he was of Cicill
35. I will heare the (sayde he) whe thyne accusars are come also: and commaunded him to be kepte in Herodes pallys.

== Acts 24 ==
1. After.v. dayes Ananias the hye preste descended with elders and with a certayne Oratour named Tartullus and enformed the ruelar of Paul.
2. When Paul was called forth Tartullus beganne to accuse him saying: Seynge yt we live in great quyetnes by the meanes of the and that many good thinges are done vnto this nacion thorow thy providence:
3. that alowe we ever and in all places most myghty Felix with all thankes.
4. Notwithstondinge that I be not tedeous vnto the I praye the that thou woldest heare vs of thy curtesy a feawe wordes.
5. We have founde this ma a pestilent felowe and a mover of debate vnto all the Iewes thorowe out the worlde and a mayntayner of ye secte of the Nazarites
6. and hath also enforsed to pollute the temple. Whom we toke and wolde have iudged acordinge to oure lawe:
7. but the hye captayne Lisias came vpon vs and with great violence toke him awaye out of oure hodes
8. comaundinge his accusars to come vnto the. Of who thou mayst (yf thou wilt enquyre) knowe the certayne of all these thinges where of we accuse him.
9. The Iewes lyke wyse affermed sayinge that it was even so.
10. Then Paul (after that the rular him selfe had beckened vnto him that he shuld speake) answered: I shall with a moare quyet minde answere for my selfe for as moche as I vnderstonde yt thou hast bene of many yeares a iudge vnto this people
11. because that thou mayst knowe yt there are yet.xii. dayes sence I went vp to Ierusalem for to praye
12. and that they nether founde me in the teple disputinge with eny man other raysinge vp the people nether in the Synagoges nor in the cite.
13. Nether can they prove ye thinges wher of they accuse me.
14. But this I confesse vnto ye that after that waye (which they call heresy) so worshippe I the God of my fathers belevinge all thinges which are writte in the lawe and ye Prophetes
15. and have hope towardes God that ye same resurreccion from deeth (which they them selves loke for also) shalbe both of iust and vniust.
16. And therfore stody I to have a cleare consciece towarde God and toward man also.
17. But after many yeres I came and brought almes to my people and offeringes
18. in the which they founde me purified in the teple nether with multitude nor yet wt vnquyetnes How beit there were certayne Iewes out of Asia
19. which ought to be here present before the and accuse me yf they had ought agaynst me:
20. or els let these same here saye if they have founde eny evyll doinge in me whill I stonde here in ye counsell:
21. except it be for this one voyce yt I cryed stondinge amoge the of the resurreccion fro deeth am I iudged of you this daye.
22. When Felix hearde these thinges he deferde them for he knewe very well of yt waye and sayde: when Lisias the captayne is come I will know the vtmost of youre matters.
23. And he commaunded an vndercaptayne to kepe Paul and that he shuld have rest and that he shuld forbyd none of his aquayntauce to minister vnto him or to come vnto him.
24. And after a certayne dayes ca Felix and his wyfe Drusilla which was a Iewas and called forth Paul and hearde him of the fayth which is toward Christ.
25. And as he preached of righteousnes temperauce and iudgement to come Felix trembled and answered: thou hast done ynough at this tyme departe when I have a conveniet tyme I will sende for the.
26. He hoped also that money shuld have bene geven him of Paul that he myght lowse him: wherfore he called him ye oftener and comened with him.
27. But after two yeare Festus Porcius came into Felix roume. And Felix willinge to shewe ye Iewes a pleasure lefte Paul in preson bounde.

== Acts 25 ==
1. When Festus was come into the province after thre dayes he ascended fro Cesarea vnto Ierusalem.
2. Then enformed him the hye prestes and the chefe of the Iewes of Paul. And they besought him
3. and desired faveour agaynst him that he wold sende for him to Ierusalem: and layde awayte for him in the waye to kill him.
4. Festus answered that Paul shuld be kept at Cesarea: but that he him selfe wold shortly departe thither.
5. Let the therfore (sayd he) which amoge you are able to do it come doune with vs and accuse him if ther be eny faute in the man.
6. When he had taried there moare then ten dayes he departed vnto Cesarea and the nexte daye sate doune in the iudgemet seate and commaunded Paul to be brought.
7. When he was come the Iewes which were come fro Ierusalem came aboute him and layde many and greveous complayntes agaynst Paul which they coulde not prove
8. as longe as he answered for him selfe that he had nether agaynst the lawe of the Iewes nether agaynst the temple nor yet agaynst Cesar offended eny thinge at all.
9. Festus willinge to do the Iewes a pleasure answered Paul and sayde: wilt thou goo to Ierusalem and there be iudged of these thinges before me?
10. Then sayd Paul: I stonde at Cesars iudgemet seate where I ought to be iudged. To ye Iewes have I no harme done as thou verely well knowest.
11. If I have hurte them or comitted eny thinge worthy of deeth I refuse not to dye. If none of these thinges are where of they accuse me no man owght to delyver me to them. I appeale vnto Cesar.
12. Then spake Festus with deliberacion and answered. Thou hast appealed vnto Cesar: vnto Cesar shalt thou goo.
13. After a certayne dayes kinge Agrippa and Bernice came vnto Cesarea to salute Festus.
14. And when they had bene there a good ceason Festus rehersed Paules cause vnto ye kynge sayinge: ther is a certayne man left in preson of Felix
15. about whom when I came to Ierusalem the hye prestes and elders of the Iewes enformed me and desyred to have iudgement agaynst him.
16. To whom I answered: It is not the maner of the Romayns to delyver eny man that he shuld perisshe before that he which is accused have the accusars before him and have licence to answer for him selfe concerninge ye cryme layde agaynst him:
17. whe they were come hidder wt out delaye on the morowe I sate to geve iudgement and comaunded ye ma to be brought forthe.
18. Agaynst who when ye accusers stode vp they brought none accusacion of soche thinges as I supposed:
19. but had certayne questions agaynst him of their awne supersticion and of one Iesus which was ded: whom Paul affirmed to be alyve.
20. And be cause I douted of soche maner questions I axed him whyther he wolde goo to Ierusalem and there be iudged of these matters.
21. Then when Paul had appealed to be kept vnto the knowledge of Cesar I commaunded him to be kept tyll I myght sende him to Cesar.
22. Agrippa sayd vnto Festus: I wolde also heare ye man my selfe. To morowe (sayde he) thou shalt heare him.
23. And on ye morowe when Agrippa was come and Bernice with greate pompe and were entred into the counsell housse with the captaynes and chefe men of the cite at Festus commaundement Paul was brought forth.
24. And Festus sayde: kynge Agrippa and all men which are heare present wt vs: ye se this man about whom all the multitude of the Iewes have bene with me both at Ierusalem and also here cryinge that he ought not to lyve eny lenger.
25. Yet founde I nothinge worthy of deeth that he had comitted. Neverthelesse seinge that he hath appealed to Cesar I have determined to sende him.
26. Of whom I have no certayne thinge to wryte vnto my lorde. Wherfore I have brought him vnto you and specially vnto the kynge Agrippa that after examinacion had I myght have sumwhat to wryte.
27. For me thynketh it vnreasonable for to sende a presoner and not to shewe the causes which are layde agaynst him.

== Acts 26 ==
1. Agrippa sayde vnto Paul: thou arte permitted to speake for thy selfe. Then Paul stretched forth the honde and answered for him selfe.
2. I thynke my selfe happy kynge Agrippa because I shall answere this daye before the of all the thinges wherof I am accused of ye Iewes
3. namely because thou arte experte in all customes and questions which are amonge the Iewes. Wherfore I beseche the to heare me paciently.
4. My lyvynge of a chylde which was at the fyrst amoge myne awne nacion at Ierusalem knowe all the Iewes
5. which knew me from ye beginnynge yf they wolde testifie it. For after the most straytest secte of oure laye lyved I a pharisaye.
6. And now I stond and am iudged for the hope of the promes made of God vnto oure fathers:
7. vnto which promes oure.xii. tribes instantly servynge God daye and nyght hope to come. For which hopes sake kynge Agrippa am I accused of the Iewes.
8. Why shuld it be thought a thinge vncredible vnto you that god shuld rayse agayne the deed?
9. I also verely thought in my selfe that I ought to do many cotrary thinges clene agaynst the name of Iesus of Nazareth:
10. which thinge I also dyd in Ierusalem. Where many of the sainctes I shut vp in preson and had receaved auctorite of ye hye prestes. And whe they were put to deeth I gave the sentence.
11. And I punysshed them ofte in every synagoge and compelled them to blaspheme: and was yet more mad apon them and persecuted the even vnto straunge cities.
12. About the which thinges as I went to Damasco with auctorite and licence of the hye Prestes
13. even at myddaye (o kynge) I sawe in ye waye a lyght from heven above the brightnes of the sunne shyne rounde about me and them which iorneyed with me.
14. When we were all fallen to the erth I hearde a voyce speakynge vnto me and sayinge in ye Hebrue tonge: Saul Saul why persecutest thou me? It is harde for the to kicke agaynste the pricke.
15. And I sayde: Who arte thou lorde? And he sayde I am Iesus whom thou persecutest.
16. But ryse and stond vp on thy fete. For I have apered vnto the for this purpose to make the a minister and a witnes both of tho thinges which thou hast sene and of tho thinges in the which I will appere vnto the
17. delyverynge the from the people and from ye gentyls vnto which nowe I sende the
18. to open their eyes that they myght turne from darcknes vnto lyght and from the power of Satan vnto God that they maye receave forgevenes of synnes and inheritauce amonge the which are sanctified by fayth in me.
19. Wherfore kynge Agrippa I was not disobedient vnto the hevenly vision:
20. but shewed fyrst vnto them of Damasco and at Ierusalem and thorow out all the costes of Iewry and to the gentyls that they shuld repent and turne to God and do the ryght workes of repentaunce.
21. For this cause the Iewes caught me in the temple and went about to kyll me.
22. Neverthelesse I obtayned helpe of God and cotynew vnto this daye witnessyng bothe to small and to greate saying none other thinges then those which the prophetes and Moses dyd saye shuld come
23. that Christ shulde suffre and that he shuld be the fyrst that shulde ryse from deeth and shuld shewe lyght vnto the people and the gentyls.
24. As he thus answered for him selfe: Festus sayde with a lowde voyce: Paul thou arte besides thy selfe. Moche learnynge hath made the mad.
25. And Paul sayde: I am not mad most dere Festus: but speake the wordes of trueth and sobernes.
26. The kynge knoweth of these thinges before whom I speke frely: nether thynke I that eny of these thinges are hydden fro him. For this thinge was not done in a corner.
27. Kynge Agrippa belevest thou ye prophetes? I wote well thou belevest.
28. Agrippa sayde vnto Paul: Sumwhat thou bringest me in mynde for to be come a Christen.
29. And Paul sayd: I wolde to God that not only thou: but also all that heare me to daye were not sumwhat only but altogeder soche as I am except these bondes.
30. And when he had thus spoken the kynge rose vp and the debite and Bernice and they that sate with them.
31. And when they were gone aparte they talked betwene them selves sayinge: This man doeth nothinge worthy of deeth nor of bondes.
32. Then sayde Agrippa vnto Festus: This man myght have bene lowsed yf he had not appealed vnto Cesar.

== Acts 27 ==
1. When it was cocluded that we shuld sayle into Italy they delivered Paul and certayne other presoners vnto one named Iulius an vnder captayne of Cesars soudiars.
2. And we entred into a ship of Adramicium and lowsed from lond apoynted to sayle by the costes of Asia one Aristarcus out of Macedonia of the contre of Thessalia beinge with vs.
3. And the nexte daye we came to Sidon. And Iulius courteously entreated Paul and gave him liberte to goo vnto his frendes and to refresshe him selfe.
4. And from thence lanched we and sayled harde by Cypers because the wyndes were contrarye.
5. Then sayled we over the see of Cilicia and Pamphylia and came to Myra a cite in Lycia.
6. And there ye vnder captayne founde a shippe of Alexander redy to sayle into Italy and put vs therin.
7. And when we had sayled slowly many dayes and scace were come over agaynst Gnydon (because the wynde with stode vs) we sayled harde by the costes of Candy over agaynste Salmo
8. and with moche worke sayled beyonde yt and came vnto a place called good porte. Nye whervnto was a citie called Lasea.
9. When moche tyme was spent and saylinge was now ieoperdeous because also that we had overlonge fasted Paul put them in remembraunce
10. and sayde vnto them Syrs I perceave that this vyage wilbe with hurte and moche domage not of the ladynge and ship only: but also of oure lyves.
11. Neverthelather the vndercaptayne beleved the governer and the master better then tho thinges which were spoken of Paul.
12. And because the haven was not comodius to wynter in many toke counsell to departe thence yf by eny meanes they myght attayne to Phenices and there to wynter which is an haven of Candy and servith to the southwest and northwest wynde.
13. When the south wynde blewe they supposynge to obtayne their purpose lowsed vnto Asson and sayled paste all Candy.
14. But anone after ther arose agaynste their purpose a flawe of wynde out of the northeeste.
15. And when the ship was caught and coulde not resist the wynde we let her goo and drave with the wether.
16. And we came vnto an yle named Clauda and had moche worke to come by abote
17. which they toke vp and vsed helpe vndergerdynge the shippe fearynge lest we shuld have fallen into Syrtes and we let doune a vessell and so were caryed.
18. The nexte daye when we were tossed wt an exceadynge tempest they lyghtened ye ship
19. and the thyrde daye we cast out with oure awne hondes the tacklynge of the shippe.
20. When at the last nether sunne nor starre in many dayes appered and no small tempest laye apon vs all hope that we shuld be saved was then taken awaye.
21. Then after longe abstinence Paul stode forth in the myddes of them and sayde: Syrs ye shulde have harkened to me and not have lowsed from Candy nether to have brought vnto vs this harme and losse.
22. And nowe I exhorte you to be of good chere. For ther shalbe no losse of eny mas lyfe amonge you save of the ship only.
23. For ther stode by me this nyght the angell of God whose I am and whom I serve
24. sayinge: feare not Paul for thou must be brought before Cesar. And lo God hath geven vnto the all that sayle with ye.
25. Wherfore Syrs be of good chere: for I beleve God that so it shalbe even as it was tolde me.
26. How be it we must be cast into a certayne ylonde.
27. But when ye fourtethe nyght was come as we were caryed in Adria about mydnyght the shipmen demed that ther appered some countre vnto the:
28. and sounded and founde it.xx. feddoms. And when they had gone a lytell further they sounded agayne and founde.xv. feddoms.
29. Then fearinge lest they shuld have fallen on some Rocke they cast.iiii. ancres out of the sterne and wysshed for ye daye.
30. As the shipmen were about to fle out of the ship and had let doune the bote into the see vnder a coloure as though they wolde have cast ancres out of the forshippe:
31. Paul sayd vnto ye vnder captayne and the soudiers: excepte these abyde in the ship ye cannot be safe.
32. Then the soudiers cut of the rope of the bote and let it fall awaye.
33. And in ye meane tyme betwixt that and daye Paul besought them all to take meate sayinge: this is ye fourtenthe daye that ye have taried and continued fastynge receavinge nothinge at all.
34. Wherfore I praye you to take meate: for this no dout is for youre helth: for ther shall not an heere fall fro the heed of eny of you.
35. And when he had thus spoke he toke breed and gave thankes to God in presence of the all and brake it and begane to eate.
36. Then were they all of good cheare and they also toke meate.
37. We were all together in ye ship two hundred thre score and sixtene soules.
38. And whe they had eate ynough they lightened ye ship and cast out the wheate into the see.
39. Whe yt was daye they knew not ye lande but they spied a certayne haven with a banke into ye which they were mynded (yf yt were possible) to thrust in the ship.
40. And when they had taken vp the ancres they comytted them selves vnto the see and lowsed the rudder bondes and hoysed vp ye mayne sayle to the wynde and drue to londe.
41. But they chaunsed on a place which had the see on bothe the sydes and thrust in the ship. And the foore parte stucke fast and moved not but ye hynder brake with the violence of the waves.
42. The soudears counsell was to kyll ye presoners lest eny of them when he had swome out shulde fle awaye.
43. But the vndercaptayne willinge to save Paul kept the from their purpose and commaunded that they yt could swyme shulde cast the selves first in to ye see and scape to londe.
44. And the other he comaunded to goo some on bordes and some on broken peces of the ship. And so it came to passe that they came all safe to londe.

== Acts 28 ==
1. And when they were scaped then they knewe that the yle was called Milete.
2. And the people of the countre shewed vs no lytell kyndnes: for they kyndled a fyre and receaved vs every one because of the present rayne and because of colde.
3. And when Paul had gaddered a boundle of stickes and put them into the fyre ther came a viper out of the heet and lept on his honde.
4. When the men of the contre sawe the worme hange on his honde they sayde amonge the selves: this man must nedes be a mortherer. Whome (though he have escaped the see) yet vengeaunce suffreth not to lyve.
5. But he shouke of the vermen into the fyre and felt no harme.
6. Howbeit they wayted when he shuld have swolne or fallen doune deed sodenly. But after they had loked a greate whyle and sawe no harme come to him they chaunged their myndes and sayde that he was a God.
7. In the same quarters the chefe man of the yle whose name was Publius had a lordshippe: the same receaved vs and lodged vs thre dayes courteously.
8. And it fortuned that the father of Publius laye sicke of a fiever and of a bluddy flixe. To who Paul entred in and prayde and layde his hondes on him and healed him.
9. When this was done other also which had diseases in the yle came and were healed.
10. And they dyd vs gret honoure. And when we departed they laded vs with thinges necessary.
11. After thre monethes we departed in a ship of Alexandry which had wyntred in the yle whose badge was Castor and Pollux.
12. And whe we came to Cyracusa we taryed there.iii. dayes.
13. And from thence we set a compasse and came to Regium. And after one daye the south wynde blewe and we came the next daye to Putiolus:
14. where we founde brethren and were desyred to tary with them seven dayes and so came to Rome.
15. And from thence when ye brethren hearde of vs they came agaynst vs to Apiphorum and to ye thre taverns. When Paul sawe the he thanked God and wexed bolde.
16. And when he came to Rome ye vnder captayne delyvered ye presoners to ye chefe captayne of ye host: but Paul was suffered to dwell by him selfe with one soudier that kept him.
17. And it fortuned after thre dayes that Paul called ye chefe of ye Iewes together. And whe they were come he sayde vnto the: Men and brethren though I have comitted nothinge agaynst the people or lawes of oure fathers: yet was I delyvered presoner from Ierusalem in to the hondes of ye Romayns.
18. Which when they had examined me wolde have let me goo because they founde no cause of deeth in me.
19. But when ye Iewes cryed cotrary I was constrayned to appeale vnto Cesar: not because I had ought to accuse my people of.
20. For this cause have I called for you eve to se you and to speake with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bounde with this chayne.
21. And they sayde vnto him: We nether receaved letters out of Iewry pertayninge vnto ye nether came eny of the brethren that shewed or spake eny harme of the.
22. But we will heare of the what thou thynkest. For we have hearde of this secte that every wheare it is spoken agaynst.
23. And when they had apoynted him a daye ther came many vnto him into his lodgynge. To whom he expounded and testifyed the kyngdome of God and preached vnto the of Iesu: both out of the lawe of Moses and also out of the prophetes even from mornynge to nyght.
24. And some beleved ye thinges which were spoken and some beleved not.
25. When they agreed not amonge the selves they departed after that Paul had spoken one worde. Well spake the holy goost by Esay ye prophet vnto oure fathers
26. sayinge: Goo vnto this people and saye: with youre eares shall ye heare and shall not vnderstonde: and with youre eyes shall ye se and shall not perceave.
27. For the hert of this people is wexed grosse and their eares were thycke of hearynge and their eyes have they closed: lest they shuld se with their eyes and heare with their eares and vnderstonde with their hertes and shuld be converted and I shulde heale them.
28. Be it knowen therfore vnto you that this salvacion of God is sent to the gentyls and they shall heare it.
29. And when he had sayde that the Iewes departed and had grete despicios amonge them selves.
30. And Paul dwelt two yeares full in his lodgynge and receaved all that came to him
31. preachyng the kyngdome of God and teachynge those thinges which concerned the lorde Iesus with all confidence vnforboden.

== Romans 1 ==
1. Paul the seruaut of Iesus Christ called to be an Apostle put a parte to preache the Gospell of God
2. which he promysed afore by his Prophetes in the holy scriptures
3. that make mension of his sonne the which was begotte of the seed of David as pertayninge to the flesshe:
4. and declared to be the sonne of God with power of the holy goost that sanctifieth sence ye tyme that Iesus Christ oure Lorde rose agayne from deeth
5. by whom we have receaved grace and apostleshyppe to bringe all maner hethe people vnto obedience of the fayth that is in his name:
6. of the which hethen are ye a part also which are Iesus christes by vocacio.
7. To all you of Rome beloved of God and saynctes by callinge. Grace be with you and peace from God oure father and from the Lorde Iesus Christ.
8. Fyrst verely I thanke my God thorow Iesus Christ for you all because youre fayth is publisshed through out all the worlde.
9. For God is my witnes whom I serve with my sprete in the Gospell of his sonne that with out ceasinge I make mencion of you alwayes in my prayers
10. besechinge that at one tyme or another a prosperous iorney (by ye will of god) myght fortune me to come vnto you.
11. For I longe to see you that I myght bestowe amoge you some spirituall gyfte to strength you with all:
12. that is that I myght have consolacion together with you through the commen fayth which bothe ye and I have.
13. I wolde that ye shuld knowe brethre how that I have often tymes purposed to come vnto you (but have bene let hitherto) to have some frute amonge you as I have amonge other of ye Gentyls.
14. For I am detter both to the Grekes and to them which are no Grekes vnto the learned and also vnto the vnlearned.
15. Lykewyse as moche as in me is I am redy to preache the Gospell to you of Rome also.
16. For I am not ashamed of the Gospell of Christ because it is ye power of God vnto salvacio to all yt beleve namely to the Iewe and also to ye getyle.
17. For by it ye rightewesnes which cometh of god is opened fro fayth to fayth. As it is written: The iust shall live by fayth.
18. For the wrath of God apereth from heven agaynst all vngodlynes and vnrightewesnes of me which withholde ye trueth in vnrightewesnes
19. seynge what maye be knowen of God that same is manifest amoge them. For God dyd shewe it vnto them.
20. So that his invisible thinges: that is to saye his eternall power and godhed are vnderstonde and sene by the workes from the creacion of the worlde. So that they are without excuse
21. in as moche as when they knewe god they glorified him not as God nether were thakfull but wexed full of vanities in their imaginacions and their folisshe hertes were blynded.
22. 
23. When they couted them selves wyse they became foles and turned the glory of the immortall god vnto the similitude of the ymage of mortall man and of byrdes and foure foted beastes and of serpentes.
24. Wherfore god lykewyse gave the vp vnto their hertes lustes vnto vnclennes to defyle their awne boddyes bitwene them selves:
25. which tourned his truthe vnto a lye and worshipped and served the creatures more then ye maker which is blessed for ever. Ame.
26. For this cause god gave them vp vnto shamfull lustes. For even their wemen did chaunge the naturall vse vnto the vnnaturall.
27. And lyke wyse also the men lefte the naturall vse of the woma and bret in their lustes one on another. And man with man wrought filthynes and receaved in them selves the rewarde of their erroure as it was accordinge.
28. And as it semed not good vnto them to be aknowen of God even so God delivered them vp vnto a leawde mynd yt they shuld do tho thinges which were not comly
29. beinge full of all vnrighteous doinge of fornicacio wickednes coveteousnes maliciousnes full of envie morther debate disseyte evill codicioned whisperers
30. backbyters haters of God doers of wroge proude bosters bringers vp of evyll thinges disobedient to father and mother
31. with out vnderstondinge covenaunte breakers vnlovinge trucebreakers and merciles.
32. Which me though they knew the rightewesnes of God how that they which soche thinges commyt are worthy of deeth yet not only do the same but also have pleasure in them that do them.

== Romans 2 ==
1. Therfore arte thou inexcusable o man whosoever thou be yt iudgest. For in ye same wherin thou iudgest another thou condemnest thy selfe. For thou that iudgest doest eve the same selfe thinges
2. But we are sure that the iudgement of God is accordinge to trueth agaynst them which commit soche thinges.
3. Thikest thou this O thou ma that iudgest them which do soche thinges and yet doest eve the very same yt thou shalt escape ye iudgemet of God?
4. Ether despisest thou the riches of his goodnes paciece and longe sufferaunce? and remembrest not how that the kyndnes of God ledith the to repentaunce?
5. But thou after thyne harde herte yt canot repet heapest ye togedder the treasure of wrath agaynste the daye of vengeauce when shalbe opened ye rightewes iudgemet of god
6. which will rewarde every ma accordinge to his dedes:
7. that is to saye prayse honoure and immortalite to them which cotinue in good doynge and seke eternall lyfe.
8. But vnto them that are rebellious and disobey the trueth yet folowe iniquytie shall come indignacion and wrath
9. tribulacion and anguysshe vpon the soule of every man that doth evyll: of the Iewe fyrst and also of the gentyll.
10. To every man that doth good shall come prayse honoure and peace to ye Iewe fyrst and also to the gentyll.
11. For ther is no parcialyte with god. But whosoever hath synned with out lawe shall perisshe wt out lawe.
12. And as many as haue synned vnder the lawe shalbe iudged by the lawe.
13. For before god they are not ryghteous which heare ye lawe: but the doers of the lawe shalbe iustified.
14. For if the gentyls which have no lawe do of nature the thynges contayned in the lawe: then they havynge no lawe are a lawe vnto them selves
15. which shewe the dede of the lawe wrytten in their hertes: whyll their conscience beareth witnes vnto them and also their thoughtes accusynge one another or excusynge
16. at the daye when god shall iudge the secretes of men by Iesus Christ accordinge to my Gospell.
17. Beholde thou arte called a Iewe and trustest in the lawe and reioysist in God
18. and knowest his will and hast experience of good and bad in that thou arte informed by the lawe:
19. and belevest that thou thy silfe arte a gyde vnto the blynde a lyght to them which are in darcknes
20. an informer of them which lacke discrecio a teacher of vnlearned which hast the ensample of that which ought to be knowen and of the truth in the lawe.
21. But thou which teachest another teachest not thy selfe. Thou preachest a man shuld not steale: and yet thou stealest.
22. Thou sayst a man shuld not commit advoutry: and thou breakest wedlocke. Thou abhorrest ymages and robbest God of his honoure.
23. Thou reioysest in the lawe and thorow breakinge the lawe dishonourest God.
24. For the name of god is evyll spoken of amonge the Gentyls thorowe you as it is written.
25. Circumcisio verely avayleth if thou kepe the lawe. But if thou breake the lawe thy circumcision is made vncircumcision.
26. Therfore if the vncircumcised kepe the ryght thinges contayned in the lawe: shall not his vncircumcision be counted for circumcision?
27. And shall not vncircumcision which is by nature (yf it kepe the lawe) iudge the which beynge vnder the letter and circumcision dost transgresse the lawe?
28. For he is not a Iewe which is a Iewe out warde. Nether is that thynge circumcision which is outwarde in the flesshe.
29. But he is a Iewe which is hid wythin and the circucisio of ye herte is the true circumcision which is in the sprete and not in ye letter whose prayse is not of men but of god.

== Romans 3 ==
1. What preferment then hath the Iewe? other what a vauntageth circumcision?
2. Surely very moche. Fyrst vnto them was committed the worde of God
3. What then though some of them did not beleve? shall their vnbeleve make the promes of god with out effecte?
4. God forbid. Let god be true and all men lyars as it is written: That thou myghtest be iustifyed in thy sayinge and shuldest overcome when thou arte iudged.
5. Yf oure vnrightewesnes make the rightewesnes of God more excellent: what shall we saye? Is God vnrighteous which taketh vengeauce? I speake after the maner of me.
6. God forbid. For how then shall God iudge the worlde?
7. Yf the veritie of God appere moare excellent thorow my lye vnto his prayse why am I hence forth iudged as a synner?
8. and saye not rather (as men evyll speake of vs and as some affirme that we saye) let vs do evyll that good maye come therof. Whose damnacion is iuste.
9. What saye we then? Are we better then they? No in no wyse. For we have all ready proved how that both Iewes and Gentils are all vnder synne
10. as it is writte: There is none righteous no not one:
11. There is none that vnderstondith there is none yt seketh after God
12. they are all gone out of ye waye they are all made vnprofytable ther is none that doeth good no not one.
13. Their throte is an open sepulchre with their tounges they have disceaved: the poyson of Aspes is vnder their lippes.
14. Whose mouthes are full of coursynge and bitternes.
15. Their fete are swyfte to sheed bloud.
16. Destruccion and wretchednes are in their wayes.
17. And the waye of peace they have not knowen.
18. There is no feare of God before their eyes.
19. Ye and we knowe that whatsoever ye lawe sayth he sayth it to them which are vnder the lawe. That all mouthes maye be stopped and all the worlde be subdued to god
20. because that by ye dedes of the lawe shall no flesshe be iustified in the sight of God. For by the lawe commeth the knowledge of synne.
21. Now verely is ye rigtewesnes that cometh of God declared without the fulfillinge of ye lawe havinge witnes yet of ye lawe and of the Prophetes.
22. The rightewesnes no dout which is good before God cometh by ye fayth of Iesus Christ vnto all and vpon all that beleve.Ther is no differece:
23. for all have synned and lacke the prayse yt is of valoure before God:
24. but are iustified frely by his grace through the redemcion that is in Christ Iesu
25. whom God hath made a seate of mercy thorow faith in his bloud to shewe ye rightewesnes which before him is of valoure in yt he forgeveth ye synnes yt are passed which God dyd suffre
26. to shewe at this tyme ye rightewesnes yt is alowed of him yt he myght be couted iuste and a iustifiar of him which belevith on Iesus.
27. Where is then thy reioysinge? It is excluded. By what lawe? by ye lawe of workes? Naye: but by the lawe of fayth.
28. For we suppose that a man is iustified by fayth without the dedes of ye lawe.
29. Is he the God of the Iewes only? Is he not also the God of the Gentyls? Yes eve of the Gentyles also.
30. For it is God only which iustifieth circumcision which is of fayth and vncircumcision thorow fayth.
31. Do we then destroye the lawe thorow fayth? God forbid. But we rather mayntayne the lawe.

== Romans 4 ==
1. What shall we saye then that Abraham oure father as pertayninge to ye flesshe dyd finde?
2. If Abraham were iustified by dedes the hath he wherin to reioyce: but not with god.
3. For what sayth the scripture? Abraham beleved god and it was counted vnto him for rightewesnes.
4. To him that worketh is the rewarde not reckened of favour: but of duty.
5. To him that worketh not but beleveth on him that iustifieth the vngodly is his fayth counted for rightewesnes.
6. Even as David describeth the blessedfulnes of the man vnto whom god ascribeth rihgtewesnes without dedes.
7. Blessed are they whose vnrightewesnes are forgeven and whose synnes are covered.
8. Blessed is that ma to whom the Lorde imputeth not synne.
9. Came this blessednes then vpon the circumcised or vpon the vncircucised? We saye verely how that fayth was rekened to Abraham for rightewesnes.
10. How was it rekened? in the tyme of circumcision? or in the tyme before he was circumcised? Not in tyme of circucision: but when he was yet vncircumcised.
11. And he receaved the signe of circumcision as a seale of yt rightewesnes which is by fayth which fayth he had yet beynge vncircucised: that he shuld be the father of all them that beleve though they be not circumcised that rightewesnes myght be imputed to them also:
12. and that he myght be the father of the circumcised not because they are circumcised only: but because they walke also in the steppes of that fayth yt was in oure father Abraham before the tyme of circumcision.
13. For the promes that he shuld be the heyre of the worlde was not geven to Abraha or to his seed thorow the lawe: but thorow ye rightewesnes which cometh of fayth.
14. For yf they which are of the lawe be heyres then is fayth but vayne and the promes of none effecte.
15. Because the lawe causeth wrathe. For where no lawe is there is no trasgression.
16. Therfore by fayth is the inheritauce geven that it myght come of faveour: and the promes myght be sure to all the seed. Not to them only which are of the lawe: but also to them which are of the fayth of Abraham which is the father of vs all.
17. As it is wrytten: I have made the a father to many nacions even before god whom thou hast beleved which quyckeneth the deed and called those thinges which be not as though they were.
18. Which Abraham contrary to hope beleved in hope that he shuld be the father of many nacions accordynge to that which was spoken:
19. So shall thy seed be. And he faynted not in the fayth nor yet consydered hys awne body which was now deed even when he was almost an hondred yeare olde: nether yet that Sara was past chyldeberinge.
20. He stackered not at the promes of God thorow vnbelefe: but was made stronge in the fayth and gave honour to God
21. full certifyed that what he had promised that he was able to make good.
22. And therfore was it reckened to him for rightewesnes.
23. It is not written for him only that it was reckened to him for rightewesnes:
24. but also for vs to whom it shalbe counted for rightewesnes so we beleve on him that raysed vp Iesus oure Lorde from deeth.
25. Which was delivered for oure synnes and rose agayne forto iustifie vs.

== Romans 5 ==
1. Because therfore that we are iustified by fayth we are at peace with god thorow oure Lorde Iesue Christ:
2. by who we have awaye in thorow fayth vnto this grace wherin we stonde aud reioyce in hope of the prayse that shalbe geven of God.
3. Nether do we so only: but also we reioyce in tribulacion. For we know that tribulacion bringeth pacience
4. pacience bringeth experience experience bringeth hope.
5. And hope maketh not ashamed for the love of God is sheed abrod in oure hertes by the holy goost which is geven vnto vs.
6. For when we were yet weake accordynge to ye tyme: Christ dyed for vs which were vngodly.
7. Yet scace will eny man dye for a rightewes man. Paraventure for a good ma durst a man dye.
8. But God setteth out his love that he hath to vs seinge that whyll we were yet synners Christ dyed for vs.
9. Moche more then now (seynge we are iustifyed in his bloud) shall we be saved from wrath thorow him.
10. For yf when we were enemyes we were reconciled to God by the deeth of his sonne: moche more seinge we are reconciled we shal be preservid by his lyfe.
11. Not only so but we also ioye in God by the meanes of oure Lorde Iesus Christ by whom we have receavyd the attonment.
12. Wherfore as by one ma synne entred into the worlde and deeth by the meanes of synne. And so deeth went over all men in somoche that all men synned.
13. For even vnto the tyme of the lawe was synne in the worlde: but synne was not regarded as longe as ther was no lawe:
14. neverthelesse deeth rayned fro Adam to Moses eve over them also that synned not wt lyke transgression as dyd Adam: which is ye similitude of him that is to come.
15. But the gyfte is not lyke as the synne. For yf thorow the synne of one many be deed: moche more plenteous vpon many was the grace of God and gyfte by grace: which grace was geven by one man Iesus Christ.
16. And ye gifte is not over one synne as deeth cam thorow one synne of one yt synned. For damnacion cam of one synne vnto condemnacion: but the gyft cam to iustify fro many synnes.
17. For yf by the synne of one deeth raigned by the meanes of one moche more shall they which receave aboundance of grace and of the gyfte of rightewesnes raygne in lyfe by the meanes of one (that is to saye) Iesus Christ.
18. Lykewyse then as by the synne of one condemnacion cam on all men: eve so by the iustifyinge of one cometh the rightewesnes that bringeth lyfe vpo all men.
19. For as by one manes disobediece many be cam synners: so by ye obediece of one shall many be made righteous.
20. But ye lawe in the meane tyme entred in yt synne shuld encreace. Neverthelater where aboundaunce of synne was there was more plenteousnes of grace.
21. That as synne had raigned vnto deeth even so might grace raygne thorow rightewesnes vnto eternall lyfe by the helpe of Iesu Christ.

== Romans 6 ==
1. What shall we saye then? Shall we continue in synne that there maye be aboundaunce of grace?
2. God forbyd. How shall we that are deed as touchynge synne live eny lenger therin?
3. Remember ye not that all we which are baptysed in the name of Iesu Christ are baptysed to dye with him?
4. We are buryed with him by baptim for to dye that lykewyse as Christ was raysed vp from deeth by the glorye of the father: eve so we also shuld walke in a newe lyfe.
5. For yf we be graft in deeth lyke vnto him: even so must we be in the resurreccio.
6. This we must remeber that oure olde man is crucified with him also that the body of synne myght vtterly be destroyed that hence forth we shuld not be servauntes of synne.
7. For he that is deed ys iustified from synne.
8. Wherfore yf we be deed with Christ we beleve that we shall live with him:
9. remembringe that Christ once raysed fro deeth dyeth no more. Deeth hath no moare power over him.
10. For as touchynge that he dyed he dyed concernynge synne once. And as touchinge that he liveth he liveth vnto God.
11. Lykewyse ymagen ye also that ye are deed concernynge synne: but are alive vnto God thorow Iesus Christ oure Lorde.
12. Let not synne raygne therfore in youre mortall bodyes that ye shuld thervnto obey in the lustes of it.
13. Nether geve ye youre members as instrumentes of vnrightewesnes vnto synne: but geve youre selves vnto God as they that are alive from deeth. And geve youre membres as iustrumetes of rightewesnes vnto God.
14. Let not synne have power over you. For ye are not vnder the lawe but vnder grace.
15. What then? Shall we synne because we are not vnder the lawe: but vnder grace? God forbyd.
16. Remember ye not how yt to whom soever ye comit youre selves as servautes to obey his servauntes ye are to whom ye obey: whether it be of synne vnto deeth or of obedience vnto rightewesnes?
17. God be thanked yt though ye were once the servauntes of synne ye have yet obeyed with herte vnto the forme of doctryne wher vnto ye were delyvered.
18. Ye are then made fre from synne and are be come the servauntes of rightewesnes.
19. I will speake grossly because of the infirmitie of youre flesshe. As ye have geve youre membres servauntes to vnclennes and to iniquitie fro iniquitie vnto iniquitie: even so nowe geve youre membres servantes vnto rightewesnes yt ye maye be sanctified.
20. For when ye were the servauntes of synne ye were not vnder rightewesnes.
21. What frute had ye then in tho thinges wher of ye are now ashamed. For the ende of tho thynges is deeth.
22. But now are ye delivered from synne and made the servauntes of God and have youre frute that ye shuld be sanctifyed and the ende everlastinge lyfe.
23. For the rewarde of synne is deeth: but eternall lyfe is the gyfte of God thorow Iesus Christ oure Lorde.

== Romans 7 ==
1. Remember ye not brethren (I speake to them yt know the lawe) how that the lawe hath power over a man as longe as it endureth?
2. For the woman which is in subieccion to a man is bounde by the lawe to the man as longe as he liveth. Yf the man be deed she is lowsed from the lawe of the man.
3. So then yf whill the man liveth she couple her selfe with another man she shalbe counted a wedlocke breaker. But yf the man be deed she is fre fro the lawe: so that she is no wedlocke breaker though she couple her selfe with another man.
4. Even so ye my brethren are deed concerninge the lawe by the body of Christ yt ye shuld be coupled to another (I meane to him that is rysen agayne fro deeth) that we shuld bringe forth frute vnto God.
5. For when we were in the flesshe the lustes of synne which were stered vppe by ye lawe raygned in oure membres to bringe forth frute vnto deeth.
6. But now are we delivered fro the lawe and deed fro that whervnto we werein bondage that we shuld serve in a newe conversacion of ye sprete and not in ye olde conversacion of the letter.
7. What shall we saye then? is ye lawe synne? God forbid: but I knewe not what synne meant but by the lawe. For I had not knowne what lust had meant excepte the lawe had sayde thou shalt not lust.
8. But synne toke an occasion by the meanes of the commaundement and wrought in me all manner of concupiscece. For with out the lawe synne was deed.
9. I once lived with out lawe. But when the commaundement came synne revyved and I was deed.
10. And the very same comaundement which was ordeyned vnto lyfe was founde to be vnto me an occasion of deeth.
11. For synne toke occasion by the meanes of the comaundement and so disceaved me and by the selfe commaundement slewe we.
12. Wherfore the lawe is holy and the commaundement holy iust and good.
13. Was that then which is good made deeth vnto me? God forbyd. Naye synne was deeth vnto me that it myght appere how that synne by the meanes of that which is good had wrought deeth in me: that synne which is vnder the commandemet myght be out of measure synfull.
14. For we knowe that the lawe is spirituall: but I am carnall solde vnder synne
15. because I wote not what I doo. For what I wold that do I not: but what I hate that do I.
16. Yf I do now that which I wolde not I graute to the lawe that it is good.
17. So then nowe it is not I that do it but synne that dwelleth in me.
18. For I knowe that in me (that is to saye in my flesshe) dwelleth no good thinge. To will is present with me: but I fynde no meanes to performe that which is good.
19. For I doo not yt good thinge which I wold: but that evill do I which I wolde not.
20. Finally yf I do that I wolde not then is it not I that doo it but synne that dwelleth in me doeth it.
21. I fynde then by the lawe that when I wolde do good evyll is present with me.
22. I delite in the lawe of God concerninge the inner man.
23. But I se another lawe in my membres rebellinge agaynst the lawe of my mynde and subduynge me vnto the lawe of synne which is in my membres.
24. O wretched man yt I am: who shall delyver me fro this body of deeth?
25. I thanke God thorow Iesus Christ oure Lorde. So then I my silfe in my mynde serve the lawe of God and in my flesshe the lawe of synne.

== Romans 8 ==
1. Ther is then no damnacion to them which are in Christ Iesu which walke not after ye flesshe: but after ye sprete.
2. For the lawe of the sprete yt bringeth life thorowe Iesus Christ hath delivered me fro the lawe of synne and deeth.
3. For what the lawe coulde not doo in as moche it was weake because of the flesshe: that performed God and sent his sonne in the similitude of synfull flesshe and by synne daned synne in ye flesshe:
4. that the rightewesnes requyred of the lawe myght be fulfilled in vs which walke not after the flesshe but after the sprete.
5. For they that are carnall are carnally mynded. But they that are spirituall are gostly mynded.
6. To be carnally mynded is deeth. But to be spiritually mynded is lyfe and peace.
7. Because that the flesshly mynde is emnyte agaynst God: for it is not obedient to the lawe of God nether can be.
8. So then they yt are geven to the flesshe canot please God.
9. But ye are not geven to the flesshe but to the sprete: yf so be that ye sprite of God dwell in you. If ther be eny man yt hath not ye sprite of Christ ye same is none of his.
10. Yf Christ be in you the body is deed because of synne: but the sprite is lyfe for rightewesnes sake.
11. Wherfore if the sprite of him that raysed vppe Iesus fro deeth dwell in you: even he that raysed vp Christ from deeth shall quycken youre mortall bodyes because that this sprite dwelleth in you.
12. Therfore brethren we are nowe detters not to the flesshe to live after the flesshe.
13. For if ye live after the flesshe ye must dye. But yf ye mortifie the dedes of the body by the helpe of the sprite ye shall lyve.
14. For as many as are led by the sprete of God: they are the sonnes of god.
15. For ye have no receaved the sprete of bondage to feare eny moare but ye have receaved the sprite of adopcion wherby we crye Abba father.
16. The same sprete certifieth oure sprete yt we are the sonnes of God.
17. Yf we be sonnes we are also heyres the heyres I meane of God and heyres anexed with Christ: if so be that we suffer togedder that we maye be glorified to gedder.
18. For I suppose that the affliccions of this lyfe are not worthy of the glory which shalbe shewed vpon vs.
19. Also the fervent desyre of the creatures abideth lokynge when the sonnes of God shall appere
20. because the creatures are subdued to vanyte agaynst their will: but for his will which subdueth them in hope.
21. For ye very creatures shalbe delivered from the bondage of corrupcion into the glorious lybertie of the sonnes of God.
22. For we knowe that every creature groneth with vs also and travayleth in payne even vnto this tyme.
23. Not they only but even we also which have the fyrst frutes of the sprite morne in oureselves and wayte for the (adopcio) and loke for the delivraunce of oure bodyes.
24. For we are savyd by hope. But hope that is sene is no hope. For how can a ma hope for that which he seyth?
25. But and yf we hope for that we se not then do we with pacience abyde for it.
26. Lyke wyse ye sprite also helpeth oure infirmities. For we knowe not what to desyre as we ought: but the sprete maketh intercession mightely for vs with gronynges which canot be expressid with tonge.
27. And he that searcheth the hertes knoweth what is ye meaninge of the sprite: for he maketh intercession for the sayntes accordinge to ye pleasure of god.
28. For we knowe that all thinges worke for the best vnto them yt love God which also are called of purpose.
29. For those which he knewe before he also ordeyned before yt they shuld be lyke fassioned vnto the shape of his sonne that he myght be ye fyrst begotten sonne amoge many brethren.
30. Morover which he apoynted before them he also called. And which he called them also he iustified which he iustified them he also glorified.
31. What shall we then saye vnto these thinges? yf god be on oure syde: who can be agaynst vs?
32. which spared not his awne sonne but gave him for vs all: how shall he not wt him geve vs all thinges also?
33. Who shall laye eny thinge to ye charge of goddes chosen? it is god that iustifieth:
34. who then shall condempne? it is Christ which is deed ye rather which is rysen agayne which is also on the ryght honde of God and maketh intercession for vs.
35. Who shall seperate vs fro the love of god? shall tribulacion? or anguysshe? or persecucion? other honger? other nakednesse? other parell? other swearde?
36. As it is written: For thy sake are we kylled all daye longe and are counted as shepe apoynted to be slayne.
37. Neverthelesse in all these thinges we overcome strongly thorow his helpe that loved vs.
38. Ye and I am sure that nether deeth nether lyfe nether angels nor rule nether power nether thinges present nether thinges to come
39. nether heyth nether loweth nether eny other creature shalbe able to departe vs fro ye love of God shewed in Christ Iesu oure lorde.

== Romans 9 ==
1. I saye the trueth in Christ and lye not in that wherof my conscience beareth me witnes in the holy gost
2. that I have gret hevynes and continuall sorowe in my hert.
3. For I have wysshed my selfe to be cursed from Christ for my brethren and my kynsmen as pertayninge to the flesshe
4. which are the Israelites. To whom pertayneth the adopcion and the glorie and the covenauntes and the law that was geven and the service of God and the promyses:
5. whose also are the fathers and they of whome (as concernynge the flesshe) Christ came which is God over all thinges blessed for ever Amen.
6. I speake not these thinges as though the wordes of god had take none effecte. For they are not all Israelites which came of Israel:
7. nether are they all chyldren strayght waye because they are the seed of Abraham. But in Isaac shall thy seede be called:
8. that is to saye they which are the chyldren of the flesshe are not the chyldren of god. But the chyldren of promes are counted the seede.
9. For this is a worde of promes aboute this tyme will I come and Sara shall have a sonne.
10. Nether was it so wt her only: but also when Rebecca was with chylde by one I meane by oure father Isaac
11. yeer the chyldren were borne when they had nether done good nether bad: that the purpose of God which is by election myght stonde
12. it was sayde vnto her not by the reason of workes but by grace of ye caller: the elder shall serve the yonger.
13. As it is written: Iacob he loved but Esau he hated.
14. What shall we saye then? is there eny vnrightewesses with God? God forbyd.
15. For he sayth to Moses: I will shewe mercye to who I shewe mercy: and will have compassion on whom I have copassion.
16. So lieth it not then in a mans will or cunnynge but in ye mercye of god.
17. For the scripture sayth vnto Pharao: Even for this same purpose have I stered ye vp to shewe my power on ye and that my name myght be declared thorow out all the worlde.
18. So hath he mercye on whom he will and whom he will he maketh hearde herted.
19. Thou wilt saye then vnto me: why then blameth he vs yet? For who can resist his will?
20. But o man what arte thou which disputest with God? Shall the worke saye to the workeman: why hast thou made me on this fassion?
21. Hath not the potter power over the claye even of the same lompe to make one vessell vnto honoure and a nother vnto dishonoure?
22. Even so God willynge to shewe his wrath and to make his power knowen suffered with longe pacience the vessels of wrath ordeyned to damnacion
23. that he myght declare ye ryches of his glory on the vessels of mercye which he had prepayred vnto glorie:
24. that is to saye vs which he called not of the Iewes only but also of ye gentyls.
25. As he sayth in Osee: I will call them my people which were not my people: and her beloved which was not beloved.
26. And it shall come to passe in the place where it was sayd vnto them ye are not my people: that there shalbe called the chyldren of the lyvynge God.
27. But Esaias cryeth concernynge Israel though the nomber of the chyldren of Israel be as the sonde of the see yet shall a remnaut be saved.
28. He finyssheth the worde verely and maketh it short in ryghtwesses. For a short worde will god make on erth.
29. And as Esaias sayd before: Except the Lorde of sabaoth had left us seede we had bene made as Zodoma and had bene lykened to Gomorra.
30. What shall we saye then? We saye that the gentyls which followed not rightewesnes have overtaken rightewesnes: I meane the rightewesnes which cometh of fayth.
31. But Israel which folowed the lawe of rightewesnes coulde not attayne vnto ye lawe of rightewesnes.
32. And wherfore? Because they sought it not by fath: but as it were by the workes of the lawe. For they have stombled at the stomblynge stone.
33. As it is written: Beholde I put in Syon a stomblynge stone and a rocke which shall make men faule. And none yt beleve on him shalbe a shamed.

== Romans 10 ==
1. Brethren my hertes desyre and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved.
2. For I beare them recorde that they have a fervet mynde to God warde but not accordinge to knowledge.
3. For they are ignoraut of the rightewesnes which is alowed before God and goo about to stablisshe their awne rightewesnes and therfore are not obedient vnto the rightewesnes which is of valew before God.
4. For Christ is the ende of the lawe to iustifie all that beleve.
5. Moses describeth the rightewesnes which cometh of ye lawe howe that the man which doth the thinges of the lawe shall lyve therin.
6. But ye rightewesnes which cometh of fayth speaketh on this wyse. Saye not in thyne hert who shall ascende into heven? (that is nothinge els then to fetch Christ doune)
7. Other who shall descende into the depe? (that is nothinge els but to fetch vp Christ from deeth)
8. But what sayth the scripture? The worde is nye the even in thy mouth and in thyn herte. This worde is the worde of fayth which we preache.
9. For yf thou shalt knowledge wt thy mouth that Iesus is the lorde and shalt beleve with thyn hert that God raysed him up from deeth thou shalt be safe.
10. For the belefe of the hert iustifieth: and to knowledge with the mouth maketh a man safe.
11. For the scripture sayth: whosoever beleveth on him shall not be ashamed.
12. Ther is no difference bitwene the Iewe and the gentyll. For one is Lorde of all which is ryche vnto all that call on him.
13. For whosoever shall call on the name of the lorde shalbe safe.
14. But how shall they call on him on who they beleved not? how shall they beleve on him of whom they have not herde? how shall they heare with out a preacher?
15. And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written: how beautifull are the fete of them which bringe glad tydynges of peace and bringe glad tydynges of good thinges.
16. But they have not all obeyed to ye gospell. For Esaias sayth: Lorde who shall beleve oure sayinges?
17. So then fayth cometh by hearynge and hearynge cometh by the worde of God.
18. But I axe: have they not herde? No dout their sounde went out into all londes: and their wordes in to the endes of the worlde.
19. But I demaunde whether Israel dyd knowe or not? Fyrst Moses sayth: I will provoke you for to envy by the that are no people and by a folisshe nacion I will anger you.
20. Esaias after that is bolde and sayth. I am founde of the that sought me not and have appered to them that axed not after me.
21. And agaynst Israel he sayth: All daye longe have I stretched forth my hondes vnto a people yt beleveth not but speaketh agaynst me.

== Romans 11 ==
1. I saye then: hath god cast awaye his people? God forbyd. For even I verely am an Israelite of the seed of Abraha and of ye tribe of Beniamin
2. god hath not cast awaye his people which he knew before. Ether wote ye not what the scripture sayth by the mouth of Helias how he maketh intercession to god agaynst Israel sayinge:
3. Lorde they have kylled thy prophetes and dygged doune thyn alters: and I am lefte only and they seke my lyfe.
4. But what sayth the answer of god to him agayne? I have reserved vnto me seven thousande men which have not bowed the knee to Baal.
5. Even so at this tyme ys ther a remnanaunt lefte thorow the eleccion of grace.
6. Yf it be of grace the is it not of workes. For then were grace no moare grace. Yf it be of workes then is it no moare grace. For then were deservyng no lenger deservynge.
7. What then? Israel hath not obtayned that that he sought. No but yet the election hath obtayned it. The remnaunt are blynded
8. accordynge as it is written: God hath geven the the sprete of vnquyetnes: eyes that they shuld not se and eares that they shuld not heare even vnto this daye.
9. And David sayth: Let their table be made a snare to take them with all and an occasion to faule and a rewarde vnto them.
10. Let their eyes be blynded that they se not: and ever bowe doune their backes.
11. I saye then: Have they therfore stombled that they shulde but faule only? God forbyd: but thorowe their faule is salvacio happened vnto the gentyls for to provoke the with all.
12. Wherfore yf the faule of them be the ryches of the worlde: and the mynysshynge of them the ryches of the gentyls: How moche more shuld it be so yf they all beleved.
13. I speake to you gentyls in as moche as I am the Apostle of ye gentyls I will magnify myn office
14. that I myght provoke them which are my flesshe and myght save some of them.
15. For yf the castynge awaye of them be the reconcylynge of the worlde: what shall the receavynge of them be but lyfe agayne from deeth?
16. For yf one pece be holy the whole heepe is holy. And yf the rote be holy the braunches are holy also.
17. Though some of the brauuches be broken of and thou beynge a wylde olyue tree arte graft in amonge them and made parttaker of ye rote and fatnes of the olyve tree
18. bost not thy selfe agaynst the brauches. For yf thou bost thy selfe remember that thou bearest not the rote but the rote the.
19. Thou wilt saye then: the brauches are broken of that I myght be grafte in.
20. Thou sayest well: because of vnbeleve they are broken of and thou stondest stedfast in fayth.
21. Be not hye mynded but feare seynge that God spared not the naturall braunches lest haply he also spare not the.
22. Beholde ye kyndnes and rigorousnes of God: on the which fell rigorousnes: but towardes the kyndnes yf thou cotinue in his kyndnes. Or els thou shalt be hewen of
23. and they yf they byde not still in vnbelefe shalbe graffed in agayne. For God is of power to graffe them in agayne.
24. For yf thou wast cut out of a naturall wilde olyve tree and wast graffed contrary to nature in a true olyve tree: how moche more shall the naturall brauches be graffed in their awne olyve tree agayne.
25. I wolde not that this secrete shuld be hyd fro you my brethren (lest ye shuld be wyse in youre awne consaytes) that partly blyndnes is happened in Israel vntyll ye fulnes of the gentyls be come in:
26. and so all Israel shalbe saved. As it is writte: There shall come oute of Sion he yt doth delyver and shall turne awaye the vngodlynes of Iacob.
27. And this is my covenaunt vnto them when I shall take awaye their synnes.
28. As cocernynge the gospell they are enemies for youre sakes: but as touchinge the election they are loved for ye fathers sakes.
29. For verely the gyftes and callynge of god are soche that it cannot repent him of them:
30. for loke as ye in tyme passed have not beleved God yet have now obtayned mercy thorow their vnbelefe:
31. even so now have they not beleved the mercy which is happened vnto you that they also maye obtayne mercy.
32. God hath wrapped all nacions in vnbeleve that he myght have mercie on all.
33. O the depnes of the aboundaunt wysdome and knowledge of God: how vnserchable are his iudgementes and his wayes past findyng out.
34. For who hath knowen the mynde of the lorde? or who was his counseller?
35. other who hath geven vnto him fyrst that he myght be recompensed agayne?
36. For of him and thorow him and for him are all thinges To him be glorye for ever Amen.

== Romans 12 ==
1. I beseche you therfore brethre by ye mercyfulnes of God that ye make youre bodyes aquicke sacrifise holy and acceptable vnto God which is youre resonable seruynge of god.
2. And fassion not youre selves lyke vnto this worlde: But be ye chaunged in youre shape by the renuynge of youre wittes that ye maye fele what thynge that good yt acceptable and perfaycte will of god is.
3. For I saye (thorowe the grace that vnto me geve is) to every man amonge you that noman esteme of him selfe moare then it becometh him to esteme: but that he discretely iudge of him selfe accordynge as God hath dealte to every man the measure of fayth.
4. As we have many members in one body and all members have not one office:
5. so we beynge many are one body in Christ and every man (amoge oure selves) one anothers mebers Seynge
6. that we have dyvers gyftes accordynge to the grace that is geven vnto vs: yf eny man have ye gyft of prophesye let him have it that it be agreynge vnto the fayth.
7. Let him that hath an office wayte on his office. Let him that teacheth take hede to his doctrine.
8. Let him that exhorteth geve attendaunce to his exhortacion. Yf eny man geve let him do it with singlenes. Let him that ruleth do it with diligence. Yf eny man shewe mercy let him do it with cherfulnes.
9. Let love be wt out dissimulacion. Hate that which is evyll and cleave vnto that which is good.
10. Be kynde one to another with brotherly love. In gevynge honoure goo one before another.
11. Let not yt busynes which ye have in honde be tedious to you. Be fervet in ye sprete. Applye youre selves to ye tyme.
12. Reioyce in hope. Be paciet in tribulacion. Continue in prayer.
13. Distribute vnto the necessite of the saynctes and diligently to harboure.
14. Blesse the which persecute you: blesse but course not.
15. Be mery with the that are mery. Wepe wt them that wepe.
16. Be of lyke affeccion one towardes another. Be not hye mided: but make youreselves equall to the of ye lower sorte. Be not wyse in youre awne opinios.
17. Recopence to no ma evyll fore evyll. Provyde afore honde thinges honest in ye syght of all men.
18. Yf it be possible howbe it of youre parte have peace with all men.
19. Derly beloued avenge not youre selves but geve roume vnto the wrath of God. For it is written: vengeaunce is myne and I will rewarde saith the lorde.
20. Terfore yf thyn enemy honger fede him: yf he thurst geve him drinke. For in so doynge thou shalt heape coles of fyre on his heed:
21. Be not overcome of evyll: But overcome evyll wt goodnes.

== Romans 13 ==
1. Let every soule submit him selfe vnto the auctorite of ye hyer powers. For there is no power but of God.
2. The powers that be are ordeyned of God. Whosoever therfore resysteth power resisteth the ordinaunce of God. And they that resist shall receave to the selfe damnacio.
3. For rulars are not to be feared for good workes but for evyll Wilt thou be with out feare of the power? Do well then: and so shalt thou be praysed of the same.
4. For he is the minister of God for thy welth. But and yf thou do evyll then feare: for he beareth not a swearde for nought: but is the minister of God to take vengeaunce on them that do evyll.
5. Wherfore ye must nedes obeye not for feare of vengeaunce only: but also because of conscience.
6. And even for this cause paye ye tribute. For they are goddes ministers servynge for the same purpose.
7. Geve to every man therfore his duetie: Tribute to whom tribute belongeth: Custome to whom custome is due: feare to whom feare belongeth: Honoure to who honoure pertayneth
8. Owe nothinge to eny man: but to love one another. For he that loveth another fulfylleth the lawe.
9. For these commaundementes: Thou shalt not comit advoutry: Thou shalt not kyll: Thou shalt not steale: Thou shalt not beare false witnes: Thou shalt not desyre and so forth (yf there be eny other comaundement) they are all comprehended in this sayinge: Love thyne neghbour as thy selfe.
10. Love hurteth not his neghbour. Therfore is love the fulfillynge of the lawe.
11. This also we knowe I mean the season howe that it is tyme that we shuld now awake oute of slepe. For now is oure salvacion nearer then when we beleved.
12. The nyght is passed and the daye is come nye. Let us therfore cast awaye the dedes of darcknes and let vs put on the (Armoure) of lyght.
13. Let vs walke honestly as it were in the daye lyght: not in eatynge and drinkynge: nether in chamburynge and wantannes: nether in stryfe and envyinge:
14. but put ye on the Lorde Iesus Christ. And make not provision for the flesshe to fulfyll ye lustes of it.

== Romans 14 ==
1. Him that is weake in the fayth receave vnto you not in disputynge and troublynge his conscience.
2. One beleveth that he maye eate all thinge. Another which is weake eateth earbes.
3. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. And let not him whiche eateth not iudge him that eateth. For God hath receaved him.
4. What arte thou that iudgest another manes servaut? Whether he stonde or faule that pertayneth vnto his master: ye he shall stonde. For God is able to make him stonde.
5. This man putteth difference bitwene daye and daye. Another man counteth all dayes alyke. Se that no man waver in his awne meanynge.
6. He that observeth one daye more then another doth it for ye lordes pleasure. And he that observeth not one daye moare then another doeth it to please ye lorde also. He that eateth doth it to please the lorde for he geveth god thankes.
7. And he yt eateth not eateth not to please ye lorde wt all and geveth god thankes.
8. For none of vs lyveth his awne servaut: nether doeth anye of vs dye his awne servaunt. Yf we lyve we lyve to be at ye lordes will. And yf we dye we dye at ye lordes will. Whether we lyve therfore or dye we are the lordes.
9. For Christ therfore dyed and rose agayne and revived that he myght be lorde both of deed and quicke.
10. But why doest thou then iudge thy brother? Other why doest thou despyse thy brother? We shall all be brought before the iudgement seate of Christ.
11. For it is written: as truely as I lyve sayth ye lorde all knees shall bowe to me and all tonges shall geve a knowledge to God.
12. So shall every one of vs geve accomptes of him selfe to God.
13. Let vs not therfore iudge one another eny more. But iudge this rather that no man put a stomblynge blocke or an occasion to faule in his brothers waye.
14. For I knowe and am full certified in the Lorde Iesus that ther is nothinge comen of it selfe: but vnto him that iudgeth it to be comen: to him is it comen.
15. If thy brother be greved with thy meate now walkest thou not charitablye. Destroye not him with thy meate for whom Christ dyed.
16. Cause not youre treasure to be evyll spoken of.
17. For the kyngdome of God is not meate and drinke: but rightewesnes peace and ioye in the holy goost.
18. For whosoever in these thinges serveth Christ pleaseth well God and is commended of men.
19. Let vs folowe tho thinges which make for peace and thinges wherwith one maye edyfie another.
20. Destroye not ye worke of god for a lytell meates sake. All thinges are pure: but it is evyll for that man which eateth with hurte of his conscience.
21. It is good nether to eate flesshe nether to drincke wyne nether eny thinge wherby thy brother stombleth ether falleth or is made weake.
22. Hast thou fayth? have it with thy selfe before god. Happy is he yt condempneth not him selfe in that thinge which he aloweth.
23. For he yt maketh conscience is dampned yf he eate: because he doth it not of fayth. For whatsoever is not of fayth that same is synne.

== Romans 15 ==
1. We which are stronge ought to beare the fraylnes of them which are weake and not to stonde in oure awne cosaytes.
2. Let every man please his neghbour vnto his welth and edyfyinge.
3. For Christ pleased not him selfe: but as it is written. The rebukes of the which rebuked the fell one me.
4. Whatsoever thinges are written afore tyme are written for oure learnynge that we thorow pacience and comforte of the scripture myght have hope.
5. The God of pacience and consolacion geve vnto every one of you that ye be lyke mynded one towardes another after the insample of Christ:
6. that ye all agreynge together maye with one mouth prayse God the father of oure Lorde Iesus.
7. Wherfore receave ye one another as Christ receaved vs to the prayse of God.
8. And I saye that Iesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the trueth of god to conferme the promyses made vnto the fathers.
9. And let the gentyls prayse god for his mercy as it is written: For this cause I will prayse the amonge the gentyls and synge in thy name.
10. And agayne he sayth: reioyse ye gentyles with his people.
11. And agayne prayse the Lorde all ye gentyls and laude him all nacions.
12. And in another place Esaias sayth: ther shalbe the rote of Iesse and he that shall ryse ro raygne over the gentyls: in him shall the gentyls trust.
13. The God of hope fyll you with all ioye and peace in belevynge: that ye maye be ryche in hope thorowe the power of the holy goost.
14. I my selfe am full certified of you my brethren that ye youre selves are full of goodnes and filled with all knowledge and are able to exhorte one another.
15. Neverthelesse brethren I have some what boldly written vnto you as one that putteth you in remembrauce thorow the grace that is geven me of God
16. that I shuld be the minister of Iesu Christ amonge the gentyls and shuld minister the gladde tydynges of God that the gentyls myght be an acceptable offerynge sanctyfied by the holy goost.
17. I have therfore wherof I maye reioyse in Christ Iesu in tho thinges which pertayne to God.
18. For I dare not speake of eny of tho thinges which Christ hath not wrought by me to make the gentyls obedient with worde and dede
19. in myghty signes and wonders by the power of the sprete of God: so that from Ierusalem and the costes rounde aboute vnto Illyricum I have fylled all countres with the gladde tydynges of Christ.
20. So have I enforsed my selfe to preache the gospell not where Christ was named lest I shuld have bylt on another mannes foundacion:
21. but as it is written: To whom he was not spoken of they shall se: and they that hearde not shall vnderstonde.
22. For this cause I have bene ofte let to come vnto you:
23. but now seynge I have no moare to do in these countres and also have bene desyrous many yeares to come vnto you
24. when I shall take my iorney into spayne I will come to you. I trust to se you in my iorney and to be brought on my waye thither warde by you after that I have somwhat enioyed you.
25. Now go I vnto Ierusalem and minister vnto the saynctes.
26. For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certayne distribucio vpo the poore saynctes which are at Ierusalem.
27. It hath pleased them verely and their detters are they. For yf the getils be made partetakers of their spirituall thinges their dutie is to minister vnto the in carnall thinges.
28. When I have performed this and have brought them this frute sealed. I will come backe agayne by you into Spayne.
29. And I am sure when I come that I shall come with aboundaunce of the blessinge of the gospell of Christ.
30. I beseche you brethre for oure Lorde Iesus Christes sake and for the love of the sprete that ye helpe me in my busynes with youre prayers to God for me
31. that I maye be delyvered from them which beleve not in Iewry and that this my service which I have to Ierusalem maye be accepted of ye saynctes
32. that I maye come vnto you with ioye by the will of God and maye with you be refresshed.
33. The God of peace be with you. Amen.

== Romans 16 ==
1. I commede vnto you Phebe oure sister (which is a minister of the congregacion of Chenchrea)
2. that ye receave her in the Lorde as it becommeth saynctes and that ye assist her in whatsoever busynes she neadeth of youre ayde. For she hath suckered many and myne awne selfe also.
3. Grete Prisca and Aquila my helpers in Christ Iesu
4. which have for my lyfe layde doune their awne neckes. Vnto which not I only geve thankes but also the congregacion of the getyls.
5. Lyke wyse grete all the copany that is in thy housse. Salute my welbeloved Epenetos which is the fyrst frute amoge them of Achaia.
6. Grete Mary which bestowed moche labour on vs.
7. Salute Andronicus and Iunia my cosyns which were presoners with me also which are wele taken amoge the Apostles and were in Christ before me.
8. Grete Amplias my beloved in ye Lorde.
9. Salute Vrban oure helper in Christ and Stachys my beloved.
10. Salute Appelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobolus housholde.
11. Salute Herodion my kynsma. Grete them of the housholde of Narcissus which are in the Lorde.
12. Salute Triphena and Triphosa which wemen dyd labour in ye Lorde. Salute ye beloved Persis which laboured in the Lorde.
13. Salute Rufus chosen tn the Lorde and his mother and myne.
14. Grete Asincritus Phlegon Herman Patrobas Hermen and the brethren which are wt them.
15. Salute Philologus and Iulia Nereus and his sister and Olimpha and all the saynctes which are with them.
16. Salute one another with an holy kysse. The congregacions of Christ salute you.
17. I beseche you brethre marke them which cause division and geve occasions of evyll contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned: and avoyde them.
18. For they yt are suche serve not ye Lorde Iesus Christ: but their awne bellyes and with swete preachinges and flatteringe wordes deceave the hertes of the innocetes.
19. For youre obedience extendeth to all men. I am glad no dout of you. But yet I wolde have you wyse vnto yt which is good and to be innocetes concerninge evyll.
20. The God of peace treade Satan vnder youre fete shortly. The grace of oure Lorde Iesu Christ be with you.
21. Thimotheus my worke felow and Lucius and Iason and Sopater my kynsmen salute you.
22. I Tertius salute you which wrote this epistle in the Lorde.
23. Gaius myne hoste and the hoste of all the congregacions saluteth you. Erastus the chamberlayne of ye cite saluteth you. And Quartus a brother saluteth you.
24. The grace of oure Lorde Iesu Christ be wt you all. Ame
25. To him that is of power to stablisshe you accordinge to my gospell and preachinge of Iesus Christ in vtteringe of the mistery which was kept secret sence the worlde begane
26. but now is opened by ye scriptures of prophesie at the commaundement of the everlastinge god to stere vp obedience to the faith publisshed amonge all nacions:
27. To the same God which alone is wyse be prayse thorowe Iesus Christ for ever. Amen.

== I Corinthians 1 ==
1. Paul by vocacion an Apostle of Iesus Christ thorow the will of God and brother Sostenes.
2. Vnto the congregacion of God which is at Corinthum. To them that are sanctified in Christ Iesu sainctes by callynge with all that call on the name of oure lorde Iesus Christ in every place both of theirs and of oures
3. Grace be with you and peace fro God oure father and from the lorde Iesus Christ.
4. I thanke my God all wayes on youre behalfe for ye grace of God which is geuen you by Iesus Christ
5. that in all thinges ve are made riche by him in all lerninge and in all knowledge
6. even as the testimony of Iesus Christ was confermed in you)
7. so that ye are behynde in no gyft and wayte for the apperynge of oure lorde Iesus Christ
8. which shall streght you vnto ye ende that ye maye be blamelesse in ye daye of oure lorde Iesus Christ.
9. ffor god is faythfull by whom ye are called vnto ye fellishyppe of his sonne Iesus Christe oure lorde
10. I beseche you brethre in ye name of oure lorde Iesus Christ that ye all speake one thynge and that there be no dissencion amoge you: but be ye knyt together in one mynde and in one meaynge.
11. It is shewed vnto me (my brethren) of you by them that are of the housse of Cloe that ther is stryfe amonge you. And this is it that I meane:
12. how that comelie amonge you one sayeth: I holde of Paul: another I holde of Apollo: ye thyrde I holde of Cephas: ye four ye I holde of Christ.
13. Ys Christ devided? was Paul crucified for you? ether were ye baptised in ye name of Paul?
14. I thanke God that I christened none of you but Crispus and Gayus
15. lest eny shulde saye that I had baptised in myne awne name.
16. I baptised also the housse of Stephana. Forthermore knowe I not whether I baptised eny man or no.
17. For Christ sent me not to baptyse but to preache ye gospell not with wysdome of wordes lest the crosse of Christ shuld have bene made of none effecte.
18. For ye preachinge of the crosse is to them yt perisshe folishnes: but vnto vs which are saved it is ye power of God.
19. For it is written: I will destroye the wysdome of the wyse and will cast awaye the vnderstondinge of the prudet.
20. Where is the wyse? Where is the scrybe? Where is the searcher of this worlde?
21. Hath not God made the wysdome of this worlde folisshnes? For when the worlde thorow wysdome knew not God in ye wysdome of God: it pleased God thorow folisshnes of preachinge to save them yt beleve.
22. For ye Iewes requyre a signe and the Grekes seke after wysdome.
23. But we preache Christ crucified vnto the Iewes an occasion of fallinge and vnto the Grekes folisshnes:
24. but vnto the which are called both of Iewes and Grekes we preache Christ ye power of God and the wysdome of God.
25. For the folishnes of God is wyser then me: and the weakenes of God is stronger then men.
26. Brethren loke on youre callinge how that not many wyse men after the flesshe not many myghty not many of hye degre are called:
27. but God hath chosen the folysshe thinges of the worlde to confounde the wyse. And God hath chosyn the weake thinges of the worlde to confounde thinges which are mighty.
28. And vile thinges of the worlde and thinges which are despysed hath God chosen yee and thinges of no reputacion for to brynge to nought thinges of reputacion
29. that no flesshe shulde reioyce in his presence.
30. And vnto him partayne ye in Christ Iesu which of God is made vnto vs wysdome and also rightewesnes and saunctifyinge and redempcion.
31. That accordinge as it is written: he which reioyseth shulde reioyce in the Lorde.

== I Corinthians 2 ==
1. And I brethren when I came to you came not in gloriousnes of wordes or of wysdome shewynge vnto you the testimony of God.
2. Nether shewed I my selfe that I knewe eny thinge amonge you save Iesus Christ eve the same that was crucified.
3. And I was amoge you in weaknes and in feare and in moche treblinge.
4. And my wordes and my preachinge were not with entysynge wordes of manes wysdome: but in shewinge of ye sprete and of power
5. that youre fayth shuld not stonde in ye wysdome of me but in yt power of God.
6. That we speake of is wysdome amonge them that are perfecte: not the wysdome of this worlde nether of the rulars of this worlde (which go to nought)
7. but we speake ye wysdome of God which is in secrete and lieth hyd which God ordeyned before the worlde vnto oure glory:
8. which wysdome none of ye rulars of the worlde knewe. For had they knowe it they wolde not have crucified the Lorde of glory.
9. But as it is written: The eye hath not sene and the eare hath not hearde nether have entred into the herte of man ye thinges which God hath prepared for them that love him.
10. But God hath opened them vnto vs by his sprete. For ye sprete searcheth all thinges ye the bottome of Goddes secretes.
11. For what man knoweth the thinges of a ma: save ye sprete of a man which is with in him? Even so ye thinges of God knoweth no man but ye sprete of god.
12. And we have not receaved the sprete of ye worlde: but the sprete which cometh of god for to knowe the thinges that are geve to vs of god
13. which thinges also we speake not in the conynge wordes of manes wysdome but with the conynge wordes of the holy goost makynge spretuall coparesons of spretuall thinges.
14. For ye naturall man perceaveth not the thinges of the sprete of god. For they are but folysshnes vnto him. Nether can he perceave them because he is spretually examined.
15. But he that is spretuall discusseth all thinges: yet he him selfe is iudged of no ma.
16. For who knoweth the mynde of the Lorde other who shall informe him? But we vnderstonde the mynde of Christ.

== I Corinthians 3 ==
1. And I coulde not speake vnto you brethre as vnto spretuall: but as vnto carnall even as it were vnto babes in Christ.
2. I gave you mylke to drinke and not meate. For ye then were not stronge no nether yet are.
3. For ye are yet carnall. As longe verely as ther is amoge you envyige stryfe and dissencio: are ye not carnall and walke after ye manner of me?
4. As loge as one sayth I holde of Paul and another I am of Apollo are ye not carnall?
5. What is Paul? What thinge is Apollo? Only miministers are they by who ye beleved even as the Lorde gave every ma grace.
6. I have planted: Apollo watred: but god gave increace.
7. So then nether is he that planteth eny thinge nether he yt watreth: but god which gave the increace.
8. He that planteth and he that watreth are nether better then the other. Every man yet shall receave his rewarde accordynge to his laboure.
9. We are goddis labourers ye are goddis husbandrye ye are goddis byldynge.
10. Accordynge to the grace of god geven vnto me as a wyse bylder have I layde the foundacio And another bylt thero But let every ma take hede how he bildeth apo.
11. For other foundacion can no man laye then yt which is layde which is Iesus Christ.
12. Yf eny man bilde on this foundacion golde silver precious stones tymber haye or stoble:
13. every mannes worke shall appere. For the daye shall declare it and it shalbe shewed in fyre. And ye fyre shall trye euery mannes worke what it is.
14. Yf eny mannes worke yt he hath bylt apon byde he shall receave a rewarde.
15. If eny manes worke burne he shall suffre losse: but he shalbe safe him selfe: neverthelesse yet as it were thorow fyre.
16. Are ye not ware that ye are the temple of god and how that the sprete of god dwelleth in you?
17. Yf eny man defyle the temple of god him shall god destroye. For the temple of god is holy which temple ye are.
18. Let no man deceave him silfe. Yf eny man seme wyse amonge you let him be a fole in this worlde that he maye be wyse.
19. For ye wisdome of this worlde is folysshnes with god. For it is writte: he compaseth the wyse in their craftynes.
20. And agayne God knoweth the thoughtes of the wyse that they be vayne.
21. 
22. Therfore let no ma reioyce in men. For all thinges are youres whether it be Paul other Apollo other Cephas: whether it be ye worlde other lyfe other deeth whether they be present thinges or thinges to come: all are youres
23. and ye are Christes and Christ is goddis.

== I Corinthians 4 ==
1. Let men this wyse esteme vs eve as the ministers of Christ and disposers of ye secretes of God.
2. Furthermore it is requyred of the disposers that they be founde faithfull.
3. With me is it but a very smal thinge that I shuld be iudged of you ether of (mans daye) No I iudge not myn awne selfe.
4. I know nought by my selfe: yet am I not therby iustified. It is the Lorde that iudgeth me.
5. Therfore iudge no thinge before the tyme vntill the Lorde come which will lighten thinges that are hyd in darcknes and ope the counsels of the hertes. And then shall every man have prayse of God.
6. These thinges brethre I have described in myn awne person and Apollos for youre sakes that ye myght learne by vs that no man coute of him selfe beyonde that which is above written: that one swell not agaynst another for eny mans cause.
7. For who preferreth the? What hast thou that thou hast not receaved? Yf thou have receaved it why reioysest thou as though thou haddest not receaved it?
8. Now ye are full: now ye are made rych: ye raygne as kinges with out vs: and I wold to god ye dyd raygne that we might raygne with you.
9. Me thinketh that God hath set forth vs which are Apostles for the lowest of all as it were me appoynted to deeth. For we are a gasyngestocke vnto the worlde and to ye angels and to men.
10. We are foles for Christes sake and ye are wyse thorow Christ. We are weake and ye are stroge. Ye are honorable and we are despised.
11. Eve vnto this daye we honger and thyrst and are naked and are boffetted wt fistes and have no certayne dwellinge place
12. and laboure workinge with oure awne hondes. We are revysed and yet we blesse. We are persecuted and suffer it.
13. We are evyll spoken of and we praye. We are made as it were the filthynes of the worlde the ofscowringe of all thinges even vnto this tyme.
14. I write not these thinges to shame you: but as my beloved sonnes I warne you.
15. For though ye have ten thousande instructours in Christ: yet have ye not many fathers. In Christ Iesu I have begotten you thorowe ye gospell.
16. Wherfore I desyre you to folowe me.
17. For this cause have I sent vnto you Timotheus which is my deare sonne and faithfull in the Lorde which shall put you in remembrauce of my wayes which I have in Christ eve as I teache every where in all congregacios.
18. Some swell as though I wolde come no more at you.
19. But I will come to you shortely yf God will: and will knowe not ye wordes of the which swell but ye power:
20. for ye kyngdome of God is not in wordes but in power.
21. What will ye? Shall I come vnto you with a rodde or els in love and in the sprete of mekenes?

== I Corinthians 5 ==
1. There goeth a comen sayinge that ther is fornicacion amoge you and soche fornicacion as is not once named amonge the gentyls: that one shuld have his fathers wyfe.
2. And ye swell and have not rather sorowed yt he which hath done this dede myght be put fro amoge you.
3. For I verely as absent in body even so present in sprete have determyned all redy (as though I were present) of him that hath done this dede
4. in the name of oure Lorde Iesu Christ when ye are gaddered togedder and my sprete with the power of the Lorde Iesus Christ
5. to deliver him vnto Satan for ye destruccio of the flesshe yt the sprete maye be saved in ye daye of ye Lorde Iesus.
6. Youre reioysinge is not good: knowe ye not that a lytle leve sowreth the whole lompe of dowe.
7. Pourge therfore the olde leven that ye maye be newe dowe as ye are swete breed. For Christ oure esterlambe is offered vp for vs.
8. Therfore let vs kepe holy daye not with olde leve nether with the leven of maliciousnes and wickednes: but with the swete breed of purenes and truth.
9. I wrote vnto you in a pistle that ye shuld not company with fornicatours.
10. And I meat not at all of the fornicatours of this worlde ether of the coveteous or of extorsioners ether of the ydolaters: for then must ye nedes have gone out of ye worlde.
11. But now I write vnto you that ye company not togedder yf eny that is called a brother be a fornicator or coveteous or a worshipper of ymages ether a raylar ether a dronkard or an extorcionar: with him that is soche se that ye eate not.
12. For what have I to do to iudge them which are with out? Do ye not iudge them that are with in?
13. Them that are with out God shall iudge. Put awaye from amonge you that evyll parson.

== I Corinthians 6 ==
1. How dare one of you havinge busines with another goo to lawe vnder the wicked and not rather vnder the sainctes?
2. Do ye not know that the sainctes shall iudge the worlde? If the worlde shalbe iudged by you: are ye not good ynough to iudge smale trifles:
3. knowe ye not how that we shall iudge the angles? How moche more maye we iudge thinges that partayne to ye lyfe?
4. If ye have iudgementes of worldely matters take them which are despised in ye congregacio and make them iudges.
5. This I saye to youre shame. Is ther vtterly no wyse man amoge you? What not one at all yt can iudge bitwene brother and brother
6. but one brother goeth to lawe with another: and that vnder the vnbelevers?
7. Now therfore ther is vtterly a faute amonge you because ye goo to lawe one with another. Why rather suffer ye not wronge? why rather suffre ye not youre selves to be robbed?
8. Naye ye youre selves do wronge and robbe: and that the brethren.
9. Do ye not remember how that the vnrighteous shall not inheret the kyngdome of God? Be not deceaved. For nether fornicators nether worshyppers of ymages nether whormongers nether weaklinges nether abusars of them selves with the mankynde
10. nether theves nether the coveteous nether dronkardes nether cursed speakers nether pillers shall inheret the kyngdome of God.
11. And soche ware ye verely: but ye are wesshed: ye are sanctified: ye are iustified by the name of the Lorde Iesus and by the sprete of oure God.
12. All thinges are lawfull vnto me: but all thinges are not proffitable. I maye do all thinges: but I will be brought vnder no mans power.
13. Meates are ordeyned for the belly and the belly for meates: but God shall destroy bothe it and them. Let not the body be applied vnto fornicacion but vnto the Lorde and the Lorde vnto the body.
14. God hath raysed vp the Lorde and shall rayse vs vp by his power.
15. Ether remember ye not that youre bodyes are the members of Christ? Shall I now take the members of Christ and make them the members of an harlot? God forbyd.
16. Do ye not vnderstonde that he which coupleth him selfe with an harlot is become one body? For two (saith he) shalbe one flesshe.
17. But he that is ioyned vnto the Lorde is one sprete.
18. Fle fornicacion. All synnes that a man dothe are with out ye body. But he yt is a fornicator synneth agaynst his awne body.
19. Ether knowe ye not how that youre bodyes are the temple of ye holy goost which is in you who ye have of God and how that ye are not youre awne?
20. For ye are dearly bought. Therfore glorifie ye God in youre bodyes and in youre spretes for they are goddes.

== I Corinthians 7 ==
1. As concerninge the thinges wherof ye wrote vnto me: it is good for a ma not to touche a woman.
2. Neverthelesse to avoyde fornicacio let every man have his wyfe: and let every woman have her husbande.
3. Let the man geve vnto the wyfe due benevolence. Lykwyse also the wyfe vnto the man.
4. The wyfe hath not power over her awne body: but the husbande. And lykewyse the man hath not power over his awne body: but the wyfe
5. Withdrawe not youre selves one from another excepte it be with consent for a tyme for to geve youre selves to fastynge and prayer. And afterwarde come agayne to the same thynge lest Satan tempt you for youre incontinencye.
6. This I saye of faveour not of comaundement.
7. For I wolde that all men were as I my selfe am: but every man hath his proper gyfte of God one after this maner another after that.
8. I saye vnto the vnmaried men and widdowes: it is good for them yf they abyde eve as I do.
9. But and yf they canot abstayne let them mary. For it is better to mary then to burne.
10. Vnto the maryed comaunde not I but the Lorde: that the wyfe separate not her selfe from the man.
11. Yf she separate her selfe let her remayne vnmaryed or be reconciled vnto her husbande agayne. And let not the husbande put awaye his wyfe from him.
12. To the remnaunt speake I and not the lorde. Yf eny brother have a wyfe that beleveth not yf she be content to dwell with him let him not put her awaye.
13. And ye woma which hath to her husbande an infidell yf he consent to dwell with her let her not put him awaye.
14. For ye vnbelevynge husbande is sanctified by the wyfe: and the vnbelevynge wyfe is sanctified by the husbande. Or els were youre chyldren vnclene: but now are they pure.
15. But and yf the vnbelevynge departe let him departe. A brother or a sister is not in subiection to soche. God hath called vs in peace.
16. For how knowest thou o woman whether thou shalt save that man or no? Other how knowest thou o man whether thou shalt save that woman or no?
17. but even as God hath distributed to every man. As the lorde hath called every person so let him walke: and so orden I in all congregacios.
18. Yf eny man be called beynge circumcised let him adde nothinge therto. Yf eny be called vncircumcised: let him not be circucised.
19. Circumcision is nothinge vncircumcision is nothinge: but the kepyng of the comaundmentes of god is altogether.
20. Let every man abyde in the same state wherin he was called.
21. Arte thou called a servaut? care not for it. Neverthelesse yf thou mayst be fre vse it rather.
22. For he that is called in the lorde beynge a servaunt is the lordes freman. Lykwyse he that is called beynge fre is Christes servaut.
23. Ye are dearly bought be not mennes seruauntes.
24. Brethren let everye man wherin he is called therin abyde with God.
25. As concernynge virgins I have no comaundment of the lorde: yet geve I counsell as one that hath obtayned mercye of the lorde to be faythfull.
26. I suppose that it is good for the present necessite. For it is good for a ma so to be.
27. Arte thou bounde vnto a wyfe? seke not to be lowsed. Arte thou lowsed from a wyfe? seke not a wyfe.
28. But and yf thou take a wyfe thou synnest not. Lykwyse if a virgin mary she synneth not. Neverthelesse soche shall have trouble in their flesshe: but I faver you.
29. This saye I brethre the tyme is shorte. It remayneth that they which have wives be as though they had none
30. and they that wepe be as though thy wept not: and they that reioyce be as though they reioysed not: and they that bye be as though they possessed not:
31. and they yt vse this worlde be as though they vsed it not. For the fassion of this worlde goeth awaye.
32. I wolde have you without care: the single man careth for the thinges of the lorde how he maye please the lorde.
33. But he that hath maried careth for the thinges of the worlde howe he maye please his wyfe.
34. There is differece bitwene a virgin and a wyfe. The single woman careth for the thinges of the lorde that she maye be pure both in body and also in sprete But she that is maryed careth for the thinges of the worlde how she maye please her husband.
35. This speake I for youre proffit not to tangle you in a snare: but for that which is honest and comly vnto you and that ye maye quyetly cleave vnto the lorde wt out separacion.
36. If eny man thinke that it is vncomly for his virgin if she passe the tyme of mariage ad if so nede requyre let him do what he listeth he synneth not: let the be coupled in mariage.
37. Neverthelesse he yt purposeth surely in his herte havynge none nede: but hath power over his awne will: and hath so decreed in his herte that he will kepe his virgin doth well.
38. So then he that ioyneth his virgin in maryage doth well. But he that ioyneth not his virgin in mariage doth better.
39. The wyfe is bounde to the lawe as longe as her husband liveth If her husbande slepe she is at liberte to mary with whom she wyll only in the lorde.
40. But she is happiar yf she so abyde in my iudgmet And I thinke verely that I have the sprete of God.

== I Corinthians 8 ==
1. To speake of thinges dedicate vnto ydols we are sure that we all have knowledge. knowledge maketh a man swell: bnt love edifieth.
2. If eny man thinke that he knoweth eny thinge he knoweth nothynge yet as he ought to knowe.
3. But yf eny man love god the same is knowen of him.
4. To speake of meate dedicat vnto ydols we are sure that ther is none ydoll in the worlde and that ther is none other god but one.
5. And though ther be yt are called goddes whether in heven other in erth (as ther be goddes many and lordes many)
6. yet vnto vs is there but one god which is the father of whom are all thinges and we in him: and one lorde Iesus Christ by whom are all thinges and we by him.
7. But every man hath not knowledge. For some suppose that ther is an ydoll vntyll this houre and eate as of a thinge offered vnto ye ydole and so their consciences beynge yet weake are defyled.
8. Meate maketh vs not acceptable to god. Nether yf we eate are we ye better. Nether yf we eate not are we the worsse.
9. But take hede that youre libertie cause not ye weake to faule.
10. For yf some man se ye which hast knowledge sit at meate in the ydoles teple shall not the conscience of hym which is weake be boldened to eate those thinges which are offered vnto ye ydole?
11. And so thorow thy knowledge shall ye weake brother perisshe for whom christ dyed.
12. Whe ye synne so agaynst the brethren and wounde their weake consciences ye synne agaynst Christ.
13. Wherfore yf meate hurt my brother I will eate no flesshe whill the worlde stondeth because I will not hurte my brother.

== I Corinthians 9 ==
1. Am I not an Apostle? am I not fre? have I not sene Iesus Christ oure lorde?
2. Are not ye my worke in the lorde. Yf I be not an Apostle vnto other yet am I vnto you. For the seale of myne Apostleshippe are ye in the lorde.
3. Myne answer to them that axe me is this.
4. Have we not power to eate and to drynke?
5. Ether have we not power to leade about a sister to wyfe as wel as other Apostles and as the brethren of the lorde and Cephas?
6. Ether only I and Barnabas have not power this to do?
7. who goeth a warfare eny tyme at his awne cost? who planteth a vynearde and eateth not of the frute? Who fedeth a flocke and eateth not of the mylke?
8. Saye I these thinges after the manner of men? Or sayth not the lawe the same also?
9. For it ys written in the lawe of Moses. Thou shall not mosell the mouth of the oxe that treadeth out the corne. Doth God take thought for oxen?
10. Ether sayth he it not all to gedder for oure sakes? For oure sakes no doute this is written: that he which eareth shuld eare in hope: and that he which thressheth in hope shuld be parttaker of his hope.
11. Yf we sowe vnto you spirituall thynges: is it a greate thynge yf we reepe youre carnall thynges
12. Yf other be parttakers of this power over you? wherfore are not we rather.Neverthelesse we have not vsed this power: but suffre all thinges lest we shuld hynder the gospell of Christ.
13. Do ye not vnderstoder how that they which minister in the temple have their fyndynge of the temple? And they which wayte at the aulter are partakers with ye aultre?
14. Even so also dyd ye lorde ordayne that they which preache ye gospell shuld live of the gospell.
15. But I have vsed none of these thinges. Nether wrote I these thinges that it shuld be so done vnto me. For it were better for me to dye the yt eny man shnld take this reioysinge from me
16. In that I preache the gospell I have nothinge to reioyce of. For necessite is put vnto me. Wo is it vnto me yf I preache not the gospell.
17. If I do it with a good will I have a rewarde. But yf I do it agaynst my will an office is committed vnto me.
18. What is my rewarde then? Verely that whe I preache the gospell I make the gospell of Christ fre yt I misvse not myne auctorite in ye gospel
19. For though I be fre from all men yet have I made my silfe servaunt vnto all men that I myght wynne the moo.
20. Vnto the Iewes I became as a Iewe to winne ye Iewes. To the that were vnder the lawe was I made as though I had bene vnder the lawe to wynne the that were vnder the lawe.
21. To them that were without lawe be ca I as though I had bene without lawe (whe I was not without lawe as perteyninge to god but vnder a lawe as concerninge Christ) to wynne the that were without lawe.
22. To the weake became I as weake to wynne the weake. In all thinge I fassioned my silfe to all men to save at ye lest waye some.
23. And this I do for the gospels sake that I might have my parte therof.
24. Perceave ye not how that they which runne in a course runne all yet but one receaveth the rewarde. So runne that ye maye obtayne.
25. Euery man yt proveth masteryes abstaineth from all thinges. And they do it to obtayne a corruptible croune: but we to obtayne an vncorruptible croune:
26. I therfore so runne not as at an vncertayne thinge. So fyght I not as one yt beateth the ayer:
27. but I tame my body and bringe it into subieccio lest after that I have preached to other I my silfe shuld be a castawaye.

== I Corinthians 10 ==
1. Brethren I wolde not that ye shuld be ignoraunt of this how yt oure fathers were all vnder a cloude and all passed thorow the see
2. and were all baptised vnder Moses in the cloude and in the see:
3. and dyd all eate of one spirituall meate
4. and did all drincke of one maner of spirituall drincke. And they dranke of that spretuall rocke that folowed them which rocke was Christ.
5. But in many of them had god no delite. For they were overthrowen in the wildernes.
6. These are ensamples to vs that we shuld not lust after evyll thinges as they lusted
7. Nether be ye worshippers of Images as were some of them accordynge as it is written: The people sate doune to eate and drynke and rose vp agayne to playe.
8. Nether let vs comit fornicacion as some of them committed fornicacion and were destroyed in one daye.xxiii. thousande.
9. Nether let vs tempte Christ as some of them tempted and were destroyed of serpentes.
10. Nether murmure ye as some of them murmured and were destroyed of ye destroyer
11. All these thinges happened vnto them for ensamples and were written to put vs in remembraunce whom the endes of the worlde are come apon.
12. Wherfore let hym that thynketh he stodeth take hede least he fall.
13. There hath none other temptacion taken you but soche as foloweth ye nature of ma. But God is faythfull which shall not suffer you to be tempted above youre strenght: but shall in the myddes of the temptacion make awaye to escape out.
14. Wherfore my deare beloued fle from worshippynge of ydols.
15. I speake as vnto them which have discrecion Iudge ye what I saye.
16. Ys not the cuppe of blessinge which we blesse partakynge of ye bloude of Christ? ys not the breed which we breake partetakynge of the body of Christ?
17. because that we (though we be many) yet are one breed and one bodye in as moch as we all are partetakers of one breed.
18. Beholde Israhell which walketh carnally. Are not they which eate of the sacrifyse partetakers of the aultre?
19. What saye I then? that the ymage is eny thinge? or that it which is offered to ymages is eny thinge?
20. Nay but I saye that those thinges which the gentyle offer they offer to devyls and not to god. And I wolde not that ye shuld have fellishippe with ye devils
21. Ye canot drincke of the cup of the lorde and of yt cup of ye deuyls. Ye cnanot be partetakers of the lordes table and of the table of deuelles.
22. Ether shall we provoke the lorde? Or are we stronger then he? All thynges are laufull vnto me but all thynges are not expedient.
23. All thynges are lawfull to me but all thinges edifye not.
24. Let no man seke his awne proffet: but let every man seke anothers welthe.
25. What soever is solde in the market that eate and axe no questions for conscience sake
26. For the erth is the lordis and all that therein is.
27. Yf eny of them which beleve not bid you to a feest and yf ye be disposed to goo what soever is seet before you: eate axinge no question for conscience sake.
28. But and yf eny man saye vnto you: this is dedicate vnto ydols eate not of it for his sake that shewed it and for hurtynge of conscience.
29. Conscience I saye not thyne: but the coscieuce of that other. For why shuld my liberte be iudged of another manes conscience:
30. For yf I take my parte with thakes: why am I evell spoken of for that thynge wherfore I geve thankes.
31. Whether therfore ye eate or dryncke or what soever ye do do all to the prayse of God.
32. Se that ye geve occasion of evell nether to ye Iewes nor yet to the gentyls nether to ye cogregacion of god:
33. euen as I please all men in all thinges not sekynge myne awne proffet but the proffet of many that they myght be saved. Folowe me as I do Christ.

== I Corinthians 11 ==
1. I commende you
2. brethren that ye remeber me in all thinges and kepe the ordinaunces even as I delyvered them to you.
3. I wolde ye knew that Christ is the heed of every man. And the man is the womans heed. And God is Christes heed.
4. Eevery ma prayinge or prophesyinge havynge eny thynge on his heed shameth his heed.
5. Every woman that prayeth or prophisieth bare hedded dishonesteth hyr heed. For it is even all one and the very same thinge even as though she were shaven.
6. If the woman be not covered lett her also be shoren. If it be shame for a woma to be shorne or shave let her cover her heed.
7. A man ought not to cover his heed for as moche as he is the image and glory of God. The woman is the glory of the man.
8. For the man is not of the woman but the woman of the ma.
9. Nether was the man created for ye womas sake: but the woma for the mannes sake
10. For this cause ought the woma to have power on her heed for the angels sakes.
11. Neverthelesse nether is the ma with oute the woma nether the woma with out the man in the lorde.
12. For as the woman is of the man eve so is the man by the woman: but all is of God.
13. Iudge in youre selves whether it be coly yt a woman praye vnto god bare heeded.
14. Or els doth not nature teach you that it is a shame for a man
15. if he have longe heere: and a prayse to a woman yf she have longe heere? For her heere is geven her to cover her with all.
16. If there be eny man amonge you yt lusteth to stryve let him knowe that we have no soche custome nether the congregacions of God.
17. This I warne you of and commende not that ye come to gedder: not after a better maner but after a worsse.
18. Fyrst of all when ye come togedder in the cogregacion I heare that ther is dissencion amonge you: and I partly beleve it.
19. For ther must be sectes amonge you that they which are perfecte amonge you myght be knowen.
20. When ye come to gedder a man cannot eate the lordes supper. For every man begynneth a fore to eate his awne supper.
21. And one is hongrye and another is dronken. Have ye not houses to eate and to drinke in?
22. Or els despyse ye the congregacion of god and shame them that have not? What shall I saye vnto you? shall I prayse you: In this prayse I you not.
23. That which I delyvered vnto you I receaved of ye lorde. For ye lorde Iesus the same nyght in which he was betrayed toke breed:
24. and thanked and brake and sayde. Take ye and eate ye: this is my body which is broken for you. This do ye in the remembraunce of me.
25. After the same maner he toke the cup when sopper was done sayinge. This cup is the newe testament in my bloude. This do as oft as ye drynke it in the remebraunce of me.
26. For as often as ye shall eate this breed and drynke this cup ye shall shewe the lordes deeth tyll he come.
27. Wherfore whosoevere shall eate of this bred or drynke of the cup vnworthely shalbe giltie of the body and bloud of the Lorde
28. Let a ma therfore examen him silfe and so let hi eate of the breed and drynke of the cup.
29. For he yt eateth or drinketh vnworthely eateth and drynketh his awne damnacion because he maketh no difference of the lordis body.
30. For this cause many are weake and sicke amoge you and many slepe.
31. Yf we had truly iudged oure selves we shuld not have bene iudged.
32. But when we are iudged of the lorde we are chastened because we shuld not be daned with the worlde.
33. Wherfore my brethren when ye come to gedder to eate tary one for another.
34. Yf eny ma hoger let hi eate at home yt ye come not togedder vnto condenacio. Other thinges will I set in order whe I come.

== I Corinthians 12 ==
1. In spirituall thinges brethren I wolde not have you ignoraunt.
2. Ye knowe that ye were gentyls and went youre wayes vnto domme ydoles even as ye were ledde.
3. Wherfore I declare vnto you that no man speakynge in the sprete of god defieth Iesus. Also no man can saye that Iesus is the lorde: but by the holy goost.
4. Ther are diversities of gyftes verely yet but one sprete.
5. And ther are differences of administracions and yet but one lorde.
6. And ther are divers maners of operacions and yet but one God which worketh all thinges that are wrought in all creatures.
7. The gyftes of ye sprete are geven to every man to proffit ye congregacion.
8. To one is geven thorow the spirite the vtteraunce of wisdome? To another is geven the vtteraunce of knowledge by ye same sprete.
9. To another is geuen fayth by ye same sprete. To another ye gyftes of healynge by the same sprete.
10. To another power to do myracles. To another prophesie? To another iudgement of spretes. To another divers tonges. To another the interpretacion of toges.
11. And these all worketh eve ye silfe same sprete devydynge to every man severall gyftes even as he will.
12. For as the body is one and hath many mebres and all the membres of one body though they be many yet are but one body: even so is Christ.
13. For in one sprete are we all baptysed to make one body whether we be Iewes or getyls whether we be bonde or fre: and have all dronke of one sprete.
14. For the body is not one member but many.
15. Yf the fote saye: I am not the honde therfore I am not of the body: is he therfore not of ye body:
16. And if ye eare saye I am not the eye: therfore I am not of the body: is he therfore not of the body?
17. If all the body were an eye where were then the eare? If all were hearynge: where were the smellynge?
18. But now hath god disposed the membres every one of them in the body at his awne pleasure.
19. If they were all one member: where were the body?
20. Now are ther many membres yet but one body.
21. And the eye can not saye vnto the honde I have no nede of the: nor ye heed also to the fete. I have no nede of you.
22. Ye rather a greate deale those mebres of the body which seme to be most feble are most necessary.
23. And apo those mebres of yt body which we thinke lest honest put we most honestie on. And oure vngodly parties have most beauty on.
24. For oure honest members nede it not. But God hath so disposed the body ad hath geven most honoure to that parte which laked
25. lest there shuld be eny stryfe in the body: but that the members shuld indifferetly care one for another.
26. And yf one member suffer all suffer with him: yf one member be had in honoure all members be glad also.
27. Ye are the body of Christ and members one of another.
28. And God hath also ordeyned in the congregacion fyrst the Apostels secodarely prophetes thyrdly teachers then the that do miracles: after that the gyftes of healynge helpers governers diversite of tonges.
29. Are all Apostles? Are all Prophetes? Are all teachers? Are all doars of miracles?
30. Have all the gyftes of healinge? Do all speake wt tonges? Do all interprete?
31. Covet after ye best giftes. Amd yet shewe I vnto you a moare excellent waye.

== I Corinthians 13 ==
1. Though I spake with the tonges of me and angels and yet had no love I were eve as soundinge brasse: or as a tynklynge Cymball.
2. And though I coulde prophesy and vnderstode all secretes and all knowledge: yee yf I had all fayth so that I coulde move moutayns oute of ther places and yet had no love I were nothynge.
3. And though I bestowed all my gooddes to fede ye poore and though I gave my body even that I burned and yet had no love it profeteth me nothinge.
4. Love suffreth longe and is corteous. Love envieth not. Love doth not frowardly swelleth not dealeth
5. not dishonestly seketh not her awne is not provoked to anger thynketh not evyll
6. reioyseth not in iniquite: but reioyseth in ye trueth
7. suffreth all thynge beleveth all thynges hopeth all thynges endureth in all thynges.
8. Though that prophesyinge fayle other tonges shall cease) or knowledge vanysshe awaye yet love falleth never awaye
9. For oure knowledge is vnparfect and oure prophesyinge is vnperfet.
10. But when yt which is parfect is come then yt which is vnparfet shall be done awaye.
11. When I was a chylde I spake as a chylde I vnderstode as a childe I ymagened as a chylde. But assone as I was a man I put awaye childesshnes.
12. Now we se in a glasse even in a darke speakynge: but then shall we se face to face. Now I knowe vnparfectly: but then shall I knowe even as I am knowen.
13. Now abideth fayth hope and love even these thre: but the chefe of these is love.

== I Corinthians 14 ==
1. Labour for love and covet spretuall giftes: and most chefly forto prophesye.
2. For he that speaketh with toges speaketh not vnto men but vnto god for no man heareth him how be it in the sprete he speaketh misteries.
3. But he that prophesieth speaketh vnto men to edifyinge to exhortacion and to comforte.
4. He that speaketh with tonges proffiteth him silfe: he that prophesyeth edifieth the congregacion.
5. I wolde that ye all spake with tonges: but rather that ye prophesied. For greater is he that prophisieth? then he yt speaketh with tonges except he expounde it also that the congregacion maye have edifyinge.
6. Now brehren if I come vnto you speakige wt tonges: what shall I profit you excepte I speake vnto you other by revelacio or knowledge or prophesyinge or doctrine.
7. Moreover whe thinges with out lyfe geve sounde: whether it be a pype or an harpe: except they make a distinccion in the soundes: how shall it be knowen what is pyped or harped?
8. And also if the trope geve an vncertayne voyce who shall prepare him silfe to fyght?
9. Eve so lykwyse whe ye speake with toges excepte ye speake wordes that have signification how shall yt be vnderstonde what is spoke? For ye shall but speake in the ayer.
10. Many kyndes of voyces are in the worlde and none of them are with out signification.
11. If I knowe not what the voyce meaneth I shalbe vnto him that speaketh an alient: and and he that speaketh shalbe an alient vnto me
12. Eve so ye (for as moche as ye covet spretuall giftes) seke that ye maye have plentye vnto ye edifyinge of the congregacion.
13. Wherfore let him that speaketh with tonges praye that he maye interpret also.
14. If I praye with tonge my sprete prayeth: but my mynde is with out frute.
15. What is it then? I will praye with the sprete ad will praye wt the mynde also. I will singe with the sprete and will singe with the mynde also.
16. For els when thou blessest with ye sprete how shall he that occupieth the roume of the vnlearned saye amen at thy gevinge of thankes seynge he vnderstondeth not what thou sayest
17. Thou verely gevest thankes well but the other is not edyfied.
18. I thanke my god I speake with toges moare then ye all.
19. Yet had I lever in ye cogregacio to speake five wordes with my mynde to ye informacio of other rather then ten thousande wordes wt the tonge.
20. Brethre be not chyldre in witte. How be it as cocerninge maliciousnes be chyldre: but in witte be perfet.
21. In the lawe it is written with other toges and with other lyppes wyll I speake vnto this people and yet for all that will they not heare me sayth the Lorde.
22. Wherfore tonges are for a signe not to them that beleve: but to them that beleve not. Contrary wyse prophesyinge serveth not for them that beleve not: but for them which beleve.
23. Yf therfore when all the cogregacion is come to gedder and all speake with tonges ther come in they yt are vnlearned or they which beleve not: will they not saye that ye are out of youre wittes?
24. But and yf all prophesy and ther come in one that beleveth not or one vnlearned he is rebuked of all men and is iudged of every man:
25. and so are ye secretes of his hert opened and so falleth he doune on his face and worshippeth God and sayth yt God is wt you in dede.
26. How is it then brethre? When ye come to gedder every ma hath his songe hath his doctryne hath his toge hath his revelacio hath his interpretacio. Let all thinges be done vnto edifyinge.
27. If eny man speake wt tonges let it be two at once or at the most thre at once and that by course: and let another interprete it.
28. But yf ther be no interpreter let him kepe silence in the cogregacion and let him speake to him selfe and to God.
29. Let the Prophetes speake two at once or thre at once and let other iudge.
30. Yf eny revelacio be made to another that sitteth by let the fyrst holde his peace.
31. For ye maye all prophesy one by one that all maye learne and all maye have comforte.
32. For ye spretes of the Prophetes are in the power of the Prophetes.
33. For God is not causer of stryfe: but of peace as he is in all other congregacions of the saynctes.
34. Let youre wyves kepe silence in the cogregacions. For it is not permitted vnto them to speake: but let them be vnder obedience as sayth the lawe.
35. If they will learne enythinge let the axe their husbandes at home. For it is a shame for wemen to speake in the cogregacio.
36. Sproge ye worde of god fro you? Ether came it vnto you only?
37. Yf eny ma thinke him sylfe a prophet ether spirituall: let him vnderstonde what thinges I write vnto you. For they are the comaundementes of the Lorde.
38. But and yf eny man be ignorat let him be ignorant.
39. Wherfore brethren covet to prophesye and forbyd not to speake with tonges.
40. And let all thinges be done honestly and in order.

== I Corinthians 15 ==
1. Brethren as pertayninge to the gospell which I preached vnto you which ye have also accepted and in the which ye continue
2. by which also ye are saved: I do you to wit after what maner I preached vnto you yf ye kepe it except ye have beleved in vayne.
3. For fyrst of all I delivered vnto you that which I receaved: how that Christ dyed for oure synnes agreinge to the scriptures:
4. and that he was buried and that he arose agayne the thyrd daye accordinge to the scriptures:
5. and that he he was sene of Cephas then of the twelve.
6. After that he was sene of moo the five hodred brethren at once: of which many remayne vnto this daye and many are fallen aslepe.
7. After that appered he to Iames then to all the Apostles.
8. And last of all he was sene of me as of one that was borne out of due tyme.
9. For I am the lest of all the Apostles which am not worthy to be called an Apostle because I persecuted the congregacion of God.
10. But by the grace of God I am that I am. And his grace which is in me was not in vayne: but I labored moare aboundauntly then they all not I but the grace of God which is with me.
11. Whether it were I or they so we preache and so have ye beleved.
12. If Christ be preached how that he rose fro deeth: how saye some that are amoge you that ther is no resurreccion from deeth?
13. If ther be no rysynge agayne from deeth: then is Christ not rysen.
14. If Christ be not rysen then is oure preachinge vayne and youre faith is also in vayne.
15. Ye and we are founde falce witnesses of God. For we have testifyed of God how that he raysyd vp Christ whom he raysyd not vp yf it be so that the deed ryse not vp agayne.
16. For yf the deed ryse not agayne then is Christ not rysen agayne.
17. If it be so yt Christ rose not then is youre fayth in vayne and yet are ye in youre synnes.
18. And therto they which are fallen a slepe in Christ are perished.
19. If in this lyfe only we beleve on christ then are we of all men the miserablest.
20. But now is Christ rysen from deeth and is become the fyrst frutes of them that slept.
21. For by a man came deeth and by a man came resurreccion fro deeth.
22. For as by Adam all dye: eve so by Christ shall all be made alive
23. and every man in his awne order. The fyrst is Christ then they yt are Christis at his commynge.
24. Then cometh the ende when he hath delivered vp ye kyngdome to God ye father when he hath put doune all rule auctorite and power.
25. For he must raygne tyll he have put all his enemyes vnder his fete.
26. The last enemye that shalbe destroyed is deeth.
27. For he hath put all thinges vnder his fete. But when he sayth all thinges are put vnder him it is manyfest that he is excepted which dyd put all thinges vnder him.
28. When all thinges are subdued vnto him: then shall the sonne also him selfe be subiecte vnto him that put all thinges vnder him yt God maye be all in all thinges.
29. Ether els what do they which are baptised over ye deed yf the deed ryse not at all? Why are they then baptised over the deed?
30. Ye and why stonde we in ieoperdy every houre?
31. By oure reioysinge which I have in Christ Iesu oure Lorde I dye dayly.
32. That I have fought with beastes at Ephesus after the maner of men what avautageth it me yf the deed ryse not agayne? Let vs eate and drynke to morowe we shall dye.
33. Be not deceaved: malicious speakinges corrupte good maners.
34. Awake truely out of slepe and synne not. For some have not the knowlege of God. I speake this vnto youre rebuke.
35. But some ma will saye: how aryse ye deed? with what bodyes come they in?
36. Thou fole that which thou sowest is not quickened except it dye.
37. And what sowest thow? Thow sowest not that body that shalbe: but bare corne (I meane ether of wheet or of some other)
38. and God geveth it a body at his pleasure to every seed a severall body.
39. All flesshe is not one manner of flesshe: but ther is one maner flesshe of men another maner flesshe of beastes another maner flesshe of fysshes and another of byrdes.
40. Ther are celestiall bodyes and ther are bodyes terrestriall. But ye glory of ye celestiall is one and ye glory of the terrestriall is another.
41. Ther is one maner glory of the sonne and another glory of the mone and another glory of the starres. For one starre differth fro another in glory.
42. So is the resurreccio of ye deed. It is sowe in corrupcio and ryseth in incorrupcion.
43. It is sowen in dishonoure and ryseth in honoure. It is sowe in weaknes and ryseth in power. It is sowne a naturall body and ryseth a spretuall body.
44. Ther is a naturall bodye and ther is a spretuall body:
45. as it is written: the fyrste man Adam was made a livinge soule: and ye last Ada was made a quickeninge sprete.
46. How be it yt is not fyrst which is spirituall: but yt which is naturall and then yt which is spretuall.
47. The fyrst ma is of the erth erthy: the seconde man is ye Lorde fro heave.
48. As is the erthy soche are they that are erthye. And as is the hevely soche are they yt are hevenly.
49. And as we have borne the ymage of the erthy so shall we beare the ymage of the hevenly.
50. This saye I brethren that flesshe and bloud canot inheret the kyngdome of God. Nether corrupcion inhereth vncorrupcion.
51. Beholde I shewe you a mystery. We shall not all slepe: but we shall all be chaunged
52. and that in a moment and in the twinclinge of an eye at the sounde of the last trompe. For the trompe shall blowe and ye deed shall ryse incorruptible and we shalbe chaunged.
53. For this corruptible must put on incorruptibilite: and this mortall must put on immortalite.
54. When this corruptible hath put on incorruptibilite and this mortall hath put on immortalite: then shalbe brought to passe ye sayinge yt is writte. Deeth is consumed in to victory.
55. Deeth where is thy stynge? Hell where is thy victory?
56. The stynge of deeth is synne: and the strength of synne is the lawe.
57. But thankes be vnto God which hath geven vs victory thorow oure Lorde Iesus Christ.
58. Therfore my deare brethren be ye stedfast and unmovable alwayes ryche in the workes of the Lorde for as moch as ye knowe how yt youre labour is not in vayne in the Lorde.

== I Corinthians 16 ==
1. Of the gadderynge for the saynctes as I have ordeyned in the congregacios of Galacia even so do ye.
2. Vpon some sondaye let every one of you put a syde at home and laye vp what soever he thinketh mete that ther be no gaderinges when I come.
3. When I am come whosoever ye shall alowe by youre letters them will I sende to bringe youre liberalite vnto Ierusalem.
4. And yf it be mete yt I goo they shall go with me.
5. I will come vnto you after I have gone over Macedonia. For I will goo thorowout Macedonia.
6. With you paraveture I wyll abyde awhyle: or els winter that ye maye brynge me on my waye whyther soever I goo.
7. I will not se you now in my passage: but I trust to abyde a whyle with you yf God shall suffre me.
8. I will tary at Ephesus untyll whit sontyde.
9. For a greate dore and a frutefull is opened vnto me: and ther are many adversaries.
10. If Timotheus come se yt he be with out feare with you. For he worketh the worke of the Lorde as I doo.
11. Let no man despyse him: but convaye him forthe in peace yt he maye come vnto me. For I loke for him with the brethre.
12. To speake of brother Apollo: I greatly desyred him to come vnto you with ye brethren but his mynde was not at all to come at this tyme. How be it he will come when he shall have conveniet tyme.
13. Watche ye stonde fast in the fayth auyte you lyke men and be stronge.
14. Let all youre busynes be done in love.
15. Brethren (ye knowe the housse of Stephana how yt they are the fyrst frutes of Achaia and that they have appoynted them selves to minister vnto the saynctes)
16. I beseche you yt ye be obedient vnto soche and to all that helpe and laboure.
17. I am gladde of the comynge of Stephana Fortunatus and Achaicus: for that which was lackinge on youre parte they have supplied.
18. They have comforted my sprete and youres. Loke therfore that ye knowe them that are soche.
19. The congregacions of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you moche in the Lorde and so doeth the congregacio that is in their housse.
20. All the brethren grete you. Grete ye one another with an holy kysse.
21. The salutacion of me Paul with myne awne hande.
22. Yf eny man love not the Lorde Iesus Christ the same be anathema maranatha.
23. The grace of ye Lorde Iesus Christ be with you all.
24. My love be with you all in Christ Iesu. Ame

== II Corinthians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== II Corinthians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== II Corinthians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Corinthians 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Corinthians 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Corinthians 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Corinthians 7 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== II Corinthians 8 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== II Corinthians 9 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== II Corinthians 10 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Corinthians 11 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== II Corinthians 12 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Corinthians 13 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Galatians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Galatians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Galatians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Galatians 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 

== Galatians 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== Galatians 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== Ephesians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Ephesians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Ephesians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Ephesians 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 

== Ephesians 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 

== Ephesians 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== Philippians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Philippians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 

== Philippians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== Philippians 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Colossians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== Colossians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 

== Colossians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Colossians 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== I Thessalonians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== I Thessalonians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== I Thessalonians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== I Thessalonians 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== I Thessalonians 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 

== II Thessalonians 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

== II Thessalonians 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== II Thessalonians 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== I Timothy 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== I Timothy 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== I Timothy 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== I Timothy 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== I Timothy 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Timothy 6 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Timothy 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== II Timothy 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== II Timothy 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== II Timothy 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== Titus 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

== Titus 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Titus 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 

== Philemon 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Hebrews 1 ==
1. God in tyme past diversly and many wayes spake vnto the fathers by Prophetes:
2. but in these last dayes he hath spoken vnto vs by his sonne whom he hath made heyre of all thinges: by who also he made the worlde.
3. Which sonne beynge the brightnes of his glory and very ymage of his substance bearinge vp all thinges with the worde of his power hath in his awne person pourged oure synnes and is sitten on the right honde of the maiestie an hye
4. and is more excellent then the angels in as moche as he hath by inheritaunce obteyned an excellenter name then have they.
5. For vnto which of the angels sayde he ateny tyme: Thou arte my sonne this daye be gate I the? And agayne: I will be his father and he shalbe my sonne.
6. And agayne whe he bringeth in the fyrst begotten sonne in to the worlde he sayth: And all the angels of God shall worshippe him.
7. And of the angels he sayth: He maketh his angels spretes and his ministres flammes of fyre.
8. But vnto the sonne he sayth: God thy seate shalbe forever and ever. The cepter of thy kyngdome is a right cepter.
9. Thou hast loved rightewesnes and hated iniquyte. Wherfore God which is thy God hath anoynted the with ye oyle of gladnes above thy felowes.
10. And thou Lorde in the begynninge hast layde the foundacion of the erth. And the heves are the workes of thy hondes.
11. They shall perisshe but thou shalt endure. They all shall wexe olde as doth a garment:
12. and as a vesture shalt thou chaunge them and they shalbe chaunged. But thou arte all wayes and thy yeres shall not fayle.
13. Vnto which of the angels sayde he at eny tyme? Sit on my ryght honde tyll I make thyne enemyes thy fote stole.
14. Are they not all mynistrynge spretes sent to minister for their sakes which shalbe heyres of salvacion?

== Hebrews 2 ==
1. Wherfore we ought to geve ye more hede to ye thinges we have herde lest we perysshe.
2. For yf the worde which was spoke by angels was stedfast: so yt every trasgressio and disobediece receaved a iust recopece to rewarde:
3. how shall we escape yf we despyse so great saluacio which at ye fyrst bega to be preached of ye lorde him silfe and afterwarde was cofermed vnto vs warde by the ye hearde it
4. god bearynge witnes therto bothe with sygnes and wonders also and with divers miracles and gyftes of the holy gooste accordynge to his awne will.
5. He hath not vnto the angels put in subieccion the worlde to come where of we speake.
6. But one in a certayne place witnessed sayinge. What is man that thou arte myndfull of him?
7. After thou haddest for a season made him lower then the angels: thou crounedst him with honour and glory and hast set him above the workes of thy hondes.
8. Thou hast put all thynges in subieccion vnder his fete. In that he put all thynges vnder him he left nothynge that is not put vnder him.
9. Neverthelesse we yet se not all thynges subdued but him yt was made lesse the ye angelles: we se that it was Iesus which is crouned with glory and honour for the sofferinge of death: that he by the grace of god shulde tast of deeth for all men.
10. For it becam him for whom are all thynges and by whom are all thynges after that he had brought many sonnes vnto glory that he shuld make the lorde of their saluacion parfect thorow sofferynge.
11. For he that sanctifieth and they which are sanctified are all of one. For which causes sake he is not ashamde to call the brethren
12. sayinge: I will declare thy name vnto my brethren and in the myddes of the congregacio will I prayse the.
13. And agayne: I will put my trust in him. And agayne. beholde here am I and the children which god hath geven me.
14. For as moche then as the children were parte takers of flesshe and bloud he also him silfe lyke wyse toke parte with them for to put doune thorow deth him that had lordshippe over deeth that is to saye the devyll
15. and yt he myght delyver the which thorow feare of deeth were all their lyfetyme in dauger of bondage.
16. For he in no place taketh on him the angels: but the seede of Abraham taketh he on him.
17. Wherfore in all thynges it became him to be made lyke vnto his brethre that he myght be mercifull and a faythfull hye preste in thynges concernynge god for to pourge the peoples synnes.
18. For in that he him silfe suffered and was tempted he is able to sucker them that are tempted.

== Hebrews 3 ==
1. Wherfore holy brethren partakers of the celestiall callinge cosyder the embasseatour and hye prest of oure profession Christ Iesus
2. which was faythfull to him that made him even as was Moses in all his housse.
3. And this man was counted worthy of more glory then Moses: In as moche as he which hath prepared the housse hath most honoure in the housse.
4. Every housse is prepared of some man. But he that ordeyned all thinges is god.
5. And Moses verely was faythfull in all his housse as a minister to beare witnes of tho thinges which shuld be spoken afterwarde.
6. But Christ as a sonne hath rule over the housse whose housse are we so that we hold fast the confydence and the reioysynge of that hope vnto the ende.
7. Wherfore as the holy goost sayth: to daye if ye shall heare his voyce
8. harden not youre hertes after the rebellyon in the daye of temptacion in the wildernes
9. where youre fathers tempted me proved me and sawe my workes xl. yeare longe.
10. Wherfore I was greved wt ye generacio and sayde. They erre ever in their hertes: they verely have not knowe my wayes
11. so that I sware in my wrathe that they shuld not enter into my rest.
12. Take hede brethren that therbe in none of you an evyll herte in vnbeleve that he shuld departe from ye lyvynge god:
13. but exhorte one another dayly whill is it called to daye lest eny of you wexe harde herted thorow ye deceytfullnesse of sinne
14. We are partetakers of Christ yf we kepe sure vnto the ende the fyrst substance
15. so longe as it is sayd: to daye yf ye heare his voyce harde not youre hertes as when ye rebelled.
16. For some whe they hearde rebelled: howbe it not all yt ca out of Egypt vnder Moses.
17. But with who was he despleased.xl. yeares? Was he not displeased with them that synned: whose carkases were overthorwen in the desert?
18. To whom sware he that they shuld not enter into his rest: but vnto them that beleved not?
19. And we se that they coulde not enter in because of vnbeleve.

== Hebrews 4 ==
1. Let vs feare therfore lest eny of vs forsakynge the promes of entrynge into his rest shulde seme to come behinde.
2. For vnto vs was it declared as well as vnto them. But it proffited not them that they hearde the worde because they which hearde it coupled it not with fayth.
3. But we which have beleved do enter into his rest as contrarywyse he sayde to the other: I have sworne in my wrath they shall not enter into my rest. And that spake he verely longe after that the workes were made and the foudacio of ye worlde layde.
4. For he spake in a certayne place of ye seveth daye on this wyse: And god did rest ye seventh daye fro all his workes.
5. And in this place agayne: They shall not come into my rest.
6. Seynge therfore it foloweth that some muste enter therinto and they to who it was fyrst preached entred not therin for vnbeleves sake.
7. Agayne he apoynteth in David a certayne present daye after so longe a tyme sayinge as it is rehearsed: this daye if ye heare his voyce be not harde herted.
8. For if Iosue had geven them rest then wolde he not afterwarde have spoke of another daye.
9. There remayneth therfore yet a rest to ye people of God.
10. For he yt is is entred into his rest doth cease from his awne workes as god did from his.
11. Let vs study therfore to entre into that rest lest eny man faule after the same ensample in to vnbelefe.
12. For the worde of god is quycke and myghty in operacion and sharper then eny two edged swearde: and entreth through even vnto the dividynge asonder of the soule and the sprete and of the ioyntes and the mary: and iudgeth the thoughtes and the intentes of the herte:
13. nether is there eny creature invisible in the sight of it. For all thynges are naked and bare vnto the eyes of him of who we speake.
14. Seynge then that we have a great hye prest whych is entred into heven (I meane Iesus the sonne of God) let vs holde oure profession.
15. For we have not an hye prest which can not have compassion on oure infirmities: but was in all poyntes tempted lyke as we are: but yet with out synne.
16. Let vs therfore goo boldely vnto the seate of grace that we maye receave mercy and fynde grace to helpe in tyme of nede.

== Hebrews 5 ==
1. For every hye prest that is taken from amoge men is ordeyned for men in thynges pertaynynge to god: to offer gyftes and sacryfyses for synne:
2. which can have compassion on the ignoraunt and on them that are out of the waye because that he him silfe also is compased with infirmitie:
3. For the which infirmities sake he is bounde to offer for synnes as well for hys awne parte as for the peoples.
4. And no man taketh honour vnto him silfe but he that is called of God as was Aaron.
5. Even so lykewise Christ glorified not him silfe to be made the hye prest: but he that sayde vnto him: thou arte my sonne this daye begat I the glorified him.
6. As he also in another place speaketh: Thou arte a prest for ever after the order of Melchisedech.
7. Which in the dayes of his flesshe did offer vp prayers and sup plicacions with stronge cryinge and teares vnto him that was able to save him from deeth: and was also hearde because of his godlines.
8. And though he were Goddes sonne yet learned he obediece by tho thynges which he suffered
9. and was made parfaite and the cause of eternall saluacion vnto all them that obey him:
10. and is called of God an hye prest after the order of Melchisedech.
11. Wherof we have many thynges to saye which are harde to be vttered: because ye are dull of hearinge.
12. For when as cocerninge ye tyme ye ought to be teachers yet have ye nede agayne that we teache you the fyrst principles of the worde of god: and are become soche as have nede of mylke and not of stronge meate:
13. For every man that is feed with mylke is inexperte in the worde of rightewesnes. For he is but a babe.
14. But stronge meate belongeth to them that are parfecte which thorow custome have their wittes exercised to iudge both good and evyll also.

== Hebrews 6 ==
1. Wherfore let vs leave ye doctryne pertayninge to the beginninge of a Christen man and let vs go vnto perfeccio and now no more laye the foundacio of repentaunce from deed workes and of fayth towarde God
2. of baptyme of doctryne and of layinge on of hondes and of resurreccion from deeth and of eternall iudgemet.
3. And so will we do yf God permitte.
4. For it is not possible yt they which were once lyghted and have tasted of the hevenly gyft and were become partetakers of the holy goost
5. and have tasted of the good worde of God and of the power of the worlde to come:
6. yf they faule shuld be renued agayne vnto repentaunce: for as moche as they have (as concerninge them selves) crucified the sonne of God a fresshe makynge a mocke of him.
7. For that erth which drinketh in the rayne wich cometh ofte vpon it and bringeth forth erbes mete for them that dresse it receaveth blessynge of god.
8. But that grounde which beareth thornes and bryars is reproved and is nye vnto cursynge: whose ende is to be burned.
9. Neverthelesse deare frendes we trust to se better of you and thynges which accompany saluacion though we thus speake.
10. For god is not vnrighteous that he shuld forget youre worke and laboure that procedeth of love which love shewed in his name which have ministred vnto the saynctes and yet minister
11. Yee and we desyre that every one of you shew the same diligence to the stablysshynge of hope even vnto the ende:
12. that ye faynt not but folowe them which thorow fayth and pacience inheret the promyses.
13. For when god made promes to Abraham because he had no greater thinge to sweare by he sware by him silfe
14. sayinge: Surely I will blesse the and multiply the in dede.
15. And so after that he had taryed a longe tyme he enioyed the promes.
16. Men verely sweare by him that is greater then them selves and an othe to confyrme the thynge ys amonge them an ende of all stryfe.
17. So god willynge very aboundanly to shewe vnto the heyres of promes the stablenes of his counsayle he added an othe
18. that by two immutable thinges (in which it was vnpossible that god shuld lye) we myght have parfect consolacion which have fled for to holde fast the hope that is set before vs
19. which hope we have as an ancre of the soule both sure and stedfast. Which hope also entreth in into tho thynges which are with in the vayle
20. whither ye fore runner is for vs entred in I mea Iesus that is made an hye prest for ever after the order of Melchisedech.

== Hebrews 7 ==
1. This Melchisedech kynge of Salem (which beinge prest of ye most hye god met Abraham as he returned agayne from the slaughter of the kynges and blessed him:
2. to whom also Abraham gave tythes of all thynges) fyrst is by interpretacion kynge of rightewesnes: after yt he is kynge of Sale yt is to saye kynge of peace
3. with out father wt out mother with out kynne and hath nether begynnynge of his tyme nether yet ende of his lyfe: but is lykened vnto the sonne of god and cotinueth a preste for ever.
4. Consyder what a man this was vnto who the patriarke Abraham gave tythes of the spoyles.
5. And verely those children of levy which receave the office of the prestes have a commaundement to take a cordyng to the lawe tythes of the people that is to saye of their brethren yee though they spronge out of the loynes of Abraham.
6. But he whose kynred is not counted amonge them receaved tythes of Abraham and blessed him that had the promyses.
7. And no man denyeth but that which is lesse receaveth blessinge of yt which is greater.
8. And here men that dye receave tythes. But there he receaveth tythes of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
9. And to saye the trueth Levy him silfe also which receaveth tythes payed tythes in Abraham.
10. For he was yet in the loynes of his father Abraham when Melchisech met him.
11. Yf now therfore perfeccion came by the presthod of the levites (for vnder that presthod the people recaved the lawe) what neded it furthermore that an other prest shuld ryse after the order of Melchisedech and not after the order of Aaron?
12. Now no dout yf the presthod be translated then of necessitie must the lawe be translated also.
13. For he of whom these thynges are spoken pertayneth vnto another trybe of which never man served at the aultre.
14. For it is evidet that oure lorde spronge of the trybe of Iuda of which trybe spake Moses nothynge concernynge presthod.
15. And it is yet a more evydent thinge yf after the similitude of Melchisedech ther aryse a nother prest
16. which is not made after the lawe of the carnall commaundmet: but after the power of the endlesse lyfe
17. (For he testifieth: Thou arte a prest forever after the order of Melchysedech)
18. Then the commaundmet that went a fore is disanulled because of hir weaknes and vnproffitablenes.
19. For the lawe made nothynge parfecte: but was an introduccion of a better hope by which hope we drawe nye vnto god.
20. And for this cause it is a better hope that it was not promysed with out an othe.
21. Those prestes were made wt out an oth: but this prest with an oth by him that saide vnto him The lorde sware and will not repent: Thou arte a prest for ever after the order of Melchisedech.
22. And for that cause was Iesus a stablyssher of a better testament.
23. And amonge them many were made prestes because they were not suffred to endure by the reason of deeth.
24. But this man because he endureth ever hath an everlastinge presthod.
25. Wherfore he is able also ever to save them that come vnto god by him seynge he ever lyveth to make intercession for vs.
26. Soche an hye prest it became vs to have which is wholy harmlesse vndefyled separat from synners and made hyar then heven.
27. Which nedeth not dayly (as yonder hie prestes) to offer vp sacrifice fyrst for his awne synnes and then for the peoples synnes. For that did he at once for all when he offered vp him silfe.
28. For the lawe maketh men prestes which have infirmitie: but the worde of the othe that came fence ye lawe maketh the sonne prest which is parfecte for ever more.

== Hebrews 8 ==
1. Of the thynges which we have spoke this is the pyth: that we have soche an hye preste that is sitten on ye right honde of the seate of maieste in heven
2. and is a minister of holy thynges and of the very tabernacle which God pyght and not ma.
3. For every hye prest is ordeyned to offer gyftes and sacryfises wherfore it is of necessitie that this man have somewhat also to offer.
4. For he were not a preste yf he were on ye erth where are prestes that acordynge to ye lawe
5. offer giftes which prestes serve vnto ye ensample and shadowe of hevenly thynges: even as the answer of God was geven vnto Moses when he was about to fynnishe the tabernacle: Take hede (sayde he) that thou make all thynges accordynge to the patrone shewed to the in the mount.
6. Now hath he obtayned a more excellent office in as moche as he is the mediator of a better testament which was made for better promyses.
7. For yf that fyrst testament had bene fautelesse: then shuld no place have bene sought for the seconde.
8. For in rebukynge the he sayth: Beholde the dayes will come (sayth the lorde) and I will fynnyshe apon the housse of Israhel and apon the housse of Iuda
9. a newe testament: not lyke the testament that I made with their fathers at that tyme whe I toke them by the hondes to lede them oute of the londe of Egipte for they continued not in my testament and I regarded them not sayth the lorde.
10. For this is the testament that I will make with the housse of Israhell: After those dayes sayth the lorde: I will put my lawes in their myndes and in their hertes I will wryte the and I wilbe their God and they shalbe my people.
11. And they shall not teache every man his neghboure and every man his brother sayinge: knowe the lorde: For they shall knowe me from the lest to the moste of them:
12. For I wilbe mercifull over their vnrightwesnes and on their synnes and on their iniquiries.
13. In yt he sayth a new testament he hath abrogat the olde. Now that which is disanulled and wexed olde is redy to vannysshe awaye.

== Hebrews 9 ==
1. That fyrst tabernacle verely had ordinaunces and servynges of god and wordly holynes.
2. For there was a fore tabernacle made wherin was the candlesticke and the table and the shewe breed which is called wholy.
3. But with in the secode vayle was ther a tabernacle which is called holiest of all
4. which had the golden senser and the arcke of the testamet overlayde round about with golde wherin was the golden pot with manna and Aarons rodde that spronge and the tables of the testament.
5. Over the arcke were the cherubis of glory shadowynge the seate of grace. Of which thynges we wyll not now speake perticularly.
6. When these thynges were thus ordeyned the prestes went all wayes into the fyrst tabernacle and executed the service of god.
7. But into the seconde went the hye prest alone once every yeare: and not with out bloud which he offered for him silfe and for the ignoraunce of ye people.
8. Wherwith ye holy goost this signifyeng yt the waye of holy thynges was not yet opened whill as yet ye fyrst tabernacle was stondynge.
9. Which was a similitude for the tyme then present and in which were offered gyftes and sacrifises that coulde not make them that minister parfecte as pertaynynge to the conscience
10. with only meates and drinkes and divers wesshynges and iustifyinges of the flesshe which were ordeyned vntyll the tyme of reformacion.
11. But Christ beynge an hye prest of good thynges to come came by a greater and a moare parfecte tabernacle not made with hondes: that is to saye not of this maner bildynge
12. nether by the bloud of gotes and calves: but by his awne bloud we entred once for all into the holy place and founde eternall redemcion.
13. For yf the bloud of oxen and of Gotes and the asshes of an heyfer whe it was sprynckled puryfied the vnclene as touchynge the purifiynge of the flesshe:
14. How moche more shall the bloud of Christ (which thorow the eternall sprete offered him silfe with out spot to God) pourdge youre consciences from deed workes for to serve the livynge god?
15. And for this cause is he the mediator of ye newe testament that thorow deeth which chaunsed for the redempcion of those transgressions that were in ye fyrst testamet) they which were called myght receave the promes of eternall inheritaunce.
16. For whersoever is a testament there must also be the deeth of him that maketh the testament.
17. For the testament taketh auctoritie when men are deed: For it is of no value as longe as he that made it is alive.
18. For which cause also nether that fyrst testament was ordeyned with out bloud.
19. For when all the commaundementes were redde of Moses vnto all the people he toke ye bloud of calves and of Gotes with water and purple woll and ysope and sprynkled both the boke and all the people
20. sayinge: this is the bloud of the testament which god hath apoynted vnto you.
21. Morover he sprenkled the tabernacle with bloud also and all the ministrynge vessels.
22. And almost all thynges are bye the lawe pourged with bloud and with out effusion of bloud is no remission.
23. It is then nede that the similitudes of hevenly thynges be purified with soche thynges: but the hevenly thynges them selves are purified with better sacrifises then are those.
24. For Christ is not entred into the holy places that are made with hondes which are but similitudes of true thynges: but is entred into very heven for to appere now in the syght of God for vs:
25. not to offer him silfe often as the hye prest entreth in to ye holy place every yeare with straunge bloud
26. for then must he have often suffered sence the worlde bega. But now in the ende of the worlde hath he appered once to put synne to flyght by the offerynge vp of him silfe.
27. And as it is apoynted vnto men that they shall once dye and then commeth the iudegement even
28. so Christ was once offered to take awaye the synnes of many and vnto them that loke for him shall he appeare agayne without synne vnto saluacion.

== Hebrews 10 ==
1. For the lawe which hath but the shadowe of good thynges to come and not the thynges in their awne fassion can never with ye sacryfises which they offer yere by yere continually make the comers thervnto parfayte.
2. For wolde not then those sacrifises have ceased to have bene offered because that the offerers once pourged shuld have had no moare conscieces of sinnes.
3. Neverthelesse in those sacrifises is ther mencion made of synnes every yeare.
4. For it is vnpossible that the bloud of oxen and of gotes shuld take awaye synnes.
5. Wherfore when he commeth into the worlde he sayth: Sacrifice and offeringe thou woldest not have: but a bodie hast thou ordeyned me.
6. In sacrifices and synne offerynges thou hast no lust.
7. Then I sayde: Lo I come in the chefest of the boke it is written of me that I shuld doo thy will o god.
8. Above when he had sayed sacrifice and offerynge and burnt sacrifices and synne offerynges thou woldest not have nether hast alowed (which yet are offered by the lawe)
9. and then sayde: Lo I come to do thy will o god: he taketh awaye the fyrst to stablisshe the latter.
10. By the which will we are sanctified by the offeringe of the body of Iesu Christe once for all.
11. And every prest is redy dayly ministrynge and ofte tymes offereth one maner of offerynge which can never take awaye synnes.
12. But this man after he had offered one sacrifyce for synnes sat him doune for ever on the right honde of god
13. and from hence forth tarieth till his foes be made his fotestole.
14. For with one offerynge hath he made parfecte for ever them yt are sanctified.
15. And ye holy goost also beareth vs recorde of this even when he tolde before:
16. This is the testament that I will make vnto them after those dayes sayth the lorde. I will put my lawes in their hertes and in their mynde I will write them
17. and their synnes and iniquyties will I remember no moare.
18. And where remission of these thinges is there is no moare offerynge for synne.
19. Seynge brethren that by the meanes of the bloud of Iesu we maye be bolde to enter into that holy place
20. by the newe and livynge waye which he hath prepared for vs through the vayle that is to saye by his flesshe.
21. And seynge also that we have an hye prest which is ruler over ye housse of god
22. let vs drawe nye with a true herte in a full fayth sprynckeled in oure hertes from an evyll conscience and wesshed in oure bodies with pure water
23. and let vs kepe the profession of oure hope with oute waveringe (for he is faythfull that promysed)
24. and let vs consyder one another to provoke vnto love and to good workes:
25. and let vs not forsake the felishippe that we have amoge oure selves as the maner of some is: but let vs exhorte one another and that so moche the more because ye se that the daye draweth nye.
26. For yf we synne willyngly after that we have receaved the knowledge of the trueth there remayneth no more sacrifice for synnes
27. but a fearfull lokynge for iudgement and violent fyre which shall devoure the adversaries
28. He that despiseth Moses lawe dyeth with out mercy vnder two or thre witnesses.
29. Of how moche sorer punyshment suppose ye shall he be counted worthy which treadeth vnderfote the sonne of god: and counteth the bloude of the testament as an vnholy thynge wherwith he was sanctified and doth dishonoure to the sprete of grace.
30. For we knowe him that hath sayde vengeaunce belongeth vnto me I will recompence sayth the lorde. And agayne: the lorde shall iudge his people.
31. It is a fearfull thynge to faule into the hondes of the livynge God.
32. Call to remebraunce the dayes that are passed in the which after ye had receaved light ye endured a greate fyght in adversities
33. partly whill all men wondred and gased at you for the shame and trioulacion that was done vnto you and partly whill ye became companyons of the which so passed their tyme.
34. For ye suffered also with my bondes and toke a worth the spoylynge of youre goodes and that with gladnes knowynge in youre selves how that ye had in heven a better and an endurynge substaunce
35. Cast not awaye therfore youre confidence which hath great rewarde to recopence.
36. For ye have nede of paciece that after ye have done ye will of god ye myght receave the promes.
37. For yet a very lytell whyle and he that shall come will come and will not tary.
38. But the iust shall live by faith. And yf he withdrawe him silfe my soule shall have no pleasure in him.
39. We are not whiche withdrawe oure selves vnto dampnacio but partayne to fayth to the wynnynge of the soule.

== Hebrews 11 ==
1. Fayth is a sure confidence of thynges which are hoped for and a certayntie of thynges which are not sene.
2. By it ye elders were well reported of.
3. Thorow fayth we vnderstonde that the worlde was ordeyned by the worde of god: and that thynges which are sene were made of thynges which are not sene.
4. By fayth Abell offered vnto god a more plenteous sacrifice then Cayn: by which he obteyned witnes that he was righteous god testifyinge of his gyftes: by which also he beynge deed yet speaketh.
5. By fayth was Enoch traslated yt he shuld not se deeth: nether was he founde: for God had taken him awaye. Before he was taken awaye he was reported of that he had pleased God:
6. but with out fayth it is vnpossible to please him. For he that commeth to God must beleve that God is and that he is a rewarder of them that seke him.
7. By fayth Noe honored God after that he was warned of thinges which were not sene and prepared the arcke to the savinge of his houssholde thorowe the which arcke he condempned the worlde and became heyre of the rightewesnes which commeth by fayth.
8. By fayth Abraha whe he was called obeyed to goo out into a place which he shuld afterwarde receave to inheritaunce and he wet out not knowynge whether he shuld goo.
9. By fayth he removed into the londe yt was promysed him as into a straunge countre and dwelt in tabernacles: and so dyd Isaac and Iacob heyres with him of the same promes.
10. For he loked for a citie havinge a foundacio whose bylder and maker is God.
11. Thorow fayth Sara also receaved stregth to be with chylde and was delivered of a chylde when she was past age because she iudged him faythfull which had promysed.
12. And therfore spronge therof one (and of one which was as good as deed) so many in multitude as the starres of ye skye and as the sond of the see shore which is innumerable.
13. And they all dyed in fayth and receaved not the promyses: but sawe them a farre of and beleved them and saluted them: and confessed that they were straungers and pilgrems on the erthe.
14. They that saye soche thinges declare that they seke a coutre.
15. Also yf they had bene myndfull of that countre from whence they came oute they had leasure to have returned agayne.
16. But now they desyre a better that is to saye a hevenlye. Wherfore God is not ashamed of them even to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a citie.
17. In fayth Abraham offered vp Isaac whe he was tempted and he offered him beinge his only begotten sonne which had receaved the promyses
18. of who it was sayde in Isaac shall thy seed be called:
19. for he cosidered that God was able to rayse vp agayne fro deeth. Wherfore receaved he him for an ensample.
20. In fayth Isaac blessed Iacob and Esau concerninge thinges to come.
21. By fayth Iacob when he was a dyinge blessed both the sonnes of Ioseph and bowed him selfe towarde the toppe of his cepter.
22. By fayth Ioseph when he dyed remebred the departinge of the chyldren of Israel and gave commaundement of his bones.
23. By fayth Moses when he was borne was hid thre monethes of his father and mother be cause they sawe he was a proper chylde: nether feared they the kynges commaundemet.
24. By fayth Moses when he was great refused to be called ye sonne of Pharaos doughter
25. and chose rather to suffre adversitie wt the people of God then to enioye the pleasurs of synne for a ceason
26. and estemed the rebuke of Christ greater ryches then the treasure of Egypt. For he had a respect vnto ye rewarde.
27. By fayth he forsoke Egypt and feared not the fearcenes of the kynge. For he endured even as he had sene him which is invisible.
28. Thorow fayth he ordeyned the ester lambe and the effusion of bloud lest he that destroyed the fyrst borne shuld touche them.
29. By fayth they passed thorow the reed see as by drye londe which when the Egypcians had assayed to do they were drouned.
30. By fayth the walles of Ierico fell doune after they were copased about seven dayes.
31. By fayth ye harlot Raab perisshed not with the vnbelevers whe she had receaved the spyes to lodgynge peaseably.
32. And what shall I more saye ye tyme wold be to short for me to tell of Gedeo of Barach and of Samson and of Iephthae: also of David and Samuel and of the Prophetes:
33. which thorowe fayth subdued kyngdomes wrought righteousnes obteyned the promyses stopped the mouthes of lyons
34. queched the violence of fyre escaped the edge of the swearde of weake were made stroge waxed valient in fight turned to flyght the armyes of the alientes.
35. And the wemen receaved their deed raysed to lyfe agayne. Other were racked and wolde not be delyvered that they myght receave a better resurreccion.
36. Other tasted of mockynges and scourginginges morover of bondes and presonmet:
37. were stoned were hewen a sunder were tepted were slayne with sweardes walked vppe and doune in shepes skynnes in gotes skynnes in nede tribulacio and vexacio
38. which ye worlde was not worthy of: they wadred in wildernes in moutaynes in dennes and caves of the erth.
39. And these all thorow fayth obtayned good reporte and receaved not the promes God provydinge a better thinge for vs that they with out vs shuld not be made parfecte.
40. 

== Hebrews 12 ==
1. Wherfore let vs also (seynge that we are copased with so great a multitude of witnesses) laye awaye all that presseth doune and the synne that hageth on and let vs rune with paciece vnto the battayle yt is set before vs
2. lokynge vnto Iesus the auctor and fynnyssher of oure fayth which for the ioye that was set before him abode the crosse and despysed the shame and is set doune on the right honde of ye trone of God.
3. Consider therfore how that he endured suche speakinge agaynst him of synners lest ye shuld be weried and faynte in youre myndes.
4. For ye have not yet resisted vnto bloud sheddinge stryvinge agaynst synne.
5. And ye have forgotten the consolacion which speaketh vnto you as vnto chyldren: My sonne despyse not the chastenynge of the Lorde nether faynt when thou arte rebuked of him:
6. For whom the Lorde loveth him he chasteneth: yee and he scourgeth every sonne that he receaveth.
7. Yf ye endure chastninge God offereth him selfe vnto you as vnto sonnes. What sonne is that whom the father chasteneth not?
8. If ye be not vnder correccio (where of all are part takers) then are ye bastardes and not sonnes.
9. Moreover seynge we had fathers of oure flesshe which corrected vs and we gave them reverence: shuld we not moche rather be in subieccion vnto the father of spretuall gyftes that we myght live?
10. And they verely for a feaue dayes nurtred vs after their awne pleasure: but he learneth vs vnto that which is proffitable that we myght receave of his holines.
11. No manner chastisynge for the present tyme semeth to be ioyeous but greveous: neverthelesse afterwarde it bryngeth the quyet frute of rightewesnes vnto them which are therin exercysed.
12. Stretch forthe therfore agayne the hondes which were let doune and the weake knees
13. and se that ye have strayght steppes vnto youre fete lest eny haltinge turne out of ye waye: yee let it rather be healed.
14. Embrace peace with all men and holynes: with out the which no man shall se the Lorde.
15. And looke to that no man be destitue of the grace of God and that no rote of bitternes springe vp and trouble and therby many be defiled:
16. and that there be no fornicator or vnclene person as Esau which for one breakfast solde his birthright.
17. Ye knowe how that afterwarde when he wolde have inherited the blessinge he was put by and he foude no meanes to come therby agayne: no though he desyred it with teares.
18. For ye are not come vnto the mounte that can be touched and vnto burninge fyre nor yet to myst and darcknes and tempest of wedder
19. nether vnto the sounde of a trope and the voyce of wordes: which voyce they that hearde it wisshed awaye that the comunicacion shuld not be spoken to them.
20. For they were not able to abyde that which was spoken. If a beast had touched the mountayne it must have bene stoned or thrust thorowe with a darte:
21. eve so terreble was ye sight which appered. Moses sayde I feare and quake.
22. But ye are come vnto the moute Sion and to the citie of the livinge god the celestiall Ierusalem: and to an innumerable sight of angels
23. and vnto the congregacion of ye fyrst borne sonnes which are writte in heven and to God the iudge of all and to the spretes of iust and parfecte men
24. and to Iesus the mediator of the newe testament and to the spryncklynge of bloud that speaketh better then the bloud of Abell.
25. Se that ye despise not him yt speaketh. For yf they escaped not which refused him that spake on erth: moche more shall we not escape yf we turne awaye fro him yt speaketh fro heve:
26. whose voyce the shouke the erth and now declareth sayinge: yet once more will I shake not the erth only but also heven.
27. No dout yt same that he sayth yet once more signifieth the removinge a waye of those thinges which are shaken as of thinges which have ended their course: that the thynges which are not shaken maye remayne.
28. Wherfore if we receave a kyngdom which is not moved we have grace wherby we maye serve god and please him with reverence and godly feare.
29. For oure god is a consumynge fyre.

== Hebrews 13 ==
1. Let brotherly love continue.
2. Be not forgetfull to lodge straungers. For therby have dyvers receaved angels into their houses vnwares.
3. Remember them that are in bondes even as though ye were bounde with them. Be myndfull of them which are in adversitie as ye which are yet in youre bodies.
4. Let wedlocke be had in pryce in all poyntes and let the chamber be vndefiled: for whore kepers and advoutrars god will iudge.
5. Let youre conversacion be with out coveteousnes and be contet with that ye have all redy. For he verely sayd: I will not fayle the nether forsake the:
6. that we maye boldly saye: the lorde is my helper and I will not feare what man doeth vnto me.
7. Remember them which have the oversight of you which have declared vnto you the worde of god. The ende of whose conversacion se that ye looke vpon and folowe their fayth.
8. Iesus Christ yesterdaye and to daye and the same continueth for ever.
9. Be not caryed aboute with divers and straunge learnynge. For it is a good thynge that the herte be stablisshed with grace and not with meates which have not proffeted them that have had their pastyme in them.
10. We have an altre wherof they maye not eate which serve in the tabernacle.
11. For ye bodies of those beastes whose bloud is brought into the holy place by the hie prest to pourge sinne are burnt with out the tentes.
12. Therfore Iesus to sanctifye the people with his awne bloud suffered with out the gate.
13. Let vs goo forth therfore out of the tentes and suffer rebuke with him.
14. For here have we no continuynge citie: but we seke one to come.
15. For by him offer we the sacrifice of laude allwayes to god: that is to saye the frute of those lyppes which confesse his name.
16. To do good and to distribute forget not for with suche sacrifises god is pleased.
17. Obeye the that have the oversight of you and submit youre selves to them for they watch for youre soules even as they that must geve a comptes: that they maye do it with ioye and not with grefe. For that is an vnproffitable thynge for you.
18. Praye for vs. We have confidence because we have a good conscience in all thynges and desyre to live honestly.
19. I desire you therfore somwhat the moare aboundantly that ye so do that I maye be restored to you quyckly.
20. The god of peace that brought agayne fro deth oure lorde Iesus the gret shepperde of the shepe thorowe the bloud of the everlastynge testamet
21. make you parfect in all good workes to do his will workynge in you yt which is pleasaut in his syght thorow Iesus christ To whom be prayse for ever whill the worlde endureth Amen.
22. I beseche you brethren suffre the wordes of exhortacio: For we have written vnto you in feawe wordes:
23. knowe the brother Timothe whom we have sent fro vs with whom (yf he come shortly) I will se you.
24. Salute the that have the oversight of you and all the saynctes. They of Italy salute you.
25. Grace be with you all. Amen.

== James 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 

== James 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 

== James 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== James 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 

== James 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 

== I Peter 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Peter 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== I Peter 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== I Peter 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 

== I Peter 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== II Peter 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II Peter 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

== II Peter 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 

== I John 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

== I John 2 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 

== I John 3 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 

== I John 4 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== I John 5 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 

== II John 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 

== III John 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

== Jude 1 ==
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 

== Revelation of John 1 ==
1. The reuelacion of Iesus Christe which god gave vnto him for to shewe vnto his servauntes thinges which muste shortly come to passe. And he sent and shewed by his angell vnto his servaunt Ihon
2. which bare recorde of the worde of god and of the testimony of Iesus Christe and of all thinges yt he sawe.
3. Happy is he that redith and they that heare the wordes of the prophesy and kepe thoo thinges which are written therin. For the tyme is at honde.
4. Ihon to the.vii. congregacios in Asia. Grace be with you and peace from him which is and which was and which is to come and from the.vii. spretes which are present before his trone
5. and from Iesus Christ which is a faythfull witnes and fyrst begotte of the deed: and Lorde over the kinges of the erth. Vnto him that loved vs and wesshed vs fro synnes in his awne bloud
6. and made vs kinges and Prestes vnto God his father be glory and dominion for ever more. Amen.
7. Beholde he commeth with cloudes and all eyes shall se him: and they also which peersed him. And all kinredes of ye erth shall wayle. Even so. Amen.
8. I am Alpha and Omega the begynninge and the endinge sayth the Lorde almyghty which is and which was and which is to come.
9. I Ihon youre brother and companyon in tribulacion and in the kyngdom and pacience which is in Iesu Christe was in the yle of Pathmos for the worde of god and for ye witnessynge of Iesu Christe.
10. I was in the sprete on a sondaye and herde behynde me a gret voyce as it had bene of a trompe
11. sayinge: I am Alpha and Omega the fyrst and the laste. That thou seist write in a boke and sende it vnto the congregacions which are in Asia vnto Ephesus and vnto Smyrna and vnto Pargamos and vnto Thiatira and vnto Sardis and vnto Philadelphia and vnto Laodicia.
12. And I turned backe to se the voyce that spake to me. And when I was turned: I sawe.vii golde candelstyckes
13. and in the myddes of the cadelstyckes one lyke vnto ye sone of ma clothed with a lynnen garmet doune to the ground and gyrd aboute the pappes with a golden gyrdle
14. His heed and his heares were whyte as whyte woll and as snowe: and his eyes were as a flame of fyre:
15. and his fete lyke vnto brasse as though they brent in a fornace: and his voyce as the sounde of many waters.
16. And he had in his right honde vii. starres. And out of his mouth wet a sharpe twoo edged swearde. And his face shone eve as the sonne in his strength.
17. And when I sawe him I fell at his fete even as deed. And he layde hys ryght honde apon me sayinge vnto me: feare not. I am the fyrst and the laste
18. and am alyve and was deed. And beholde I am alyve for ever more and have the kayes of hell and of deeth.
19. wryte therfore the thynges which thou haste sene and the thynges which are and the thynges which shalbe fulfylled hereafter:
20. and ye mystery of the vii. starres which thou sawest in my ryght honde and the vii. golden candelstyckes. The vii. stares are the messengers of the vii. congregacios: And the vii. candlestyckes which thou sawest are the vii. congregacions.

== Revelation of John 2 ==
1. Unto the messenger of the congregacion of Ephesus wryte: These thynges sayth he that holdeth the vii. starres in his right honde and walketh in the myddes of the vii. golden candlestyckes
2. I knowe thy workes and thy labour and thy pacience and howe thou cannest not forbeare the which are evyll: and examinedst them which saye they are Apostles and are not: and hast founde them lyars
3. and dydest wasshe thy self. And hast pacience: and for my names sake hast labored and hast not faynted.
4. Neverthelesse I have sumwhat agaynst the for thou haste lefte thy fyrst love.
5. Remember therfore from whence thou art fallen and repent and do the fyrst workes. Or elles I wyll come vnto the shortly and will remove thy candlestyke out of his place excepte thou repent.
6. But this thou haste because thou hatest ye dedes of the Nicolaitans which dedes I also hate.
7. Lett him yt hath eares heare what ye sprete sayth vnto the congregacions. To him that overcometh will I geve to eate of the tree of lyfe which is in the myddes of ye paradice of god.
8. And vnto the angell of the congregacion of Smyrna wryte: These thynges sayth he that is fyrst and the laste which was deed and is alive.
9. I knowe thy workes and tribulacion and poverte but thou art ryche: And I knowe the blaspemy of them whiche call them selves Iewes and are not: but are the congregacio of sathan.
10. Feare none of thoo thynges which thou shalt soffre. Beholde the devyll shall caste of you into preson to tempte you and ye shall have tribulacion.x. dayes. Be faythfull vnto the deeth and I will geve the a croune of lyfe.
11. Let him that hath ears heare what the sprete sayth to the congregacions: He that overcometh shall not be hurte of the seconde deeth.
12. And to the messenger of the congregacion in Pergamos wryte: This sayth he which hath ye sharpe swearde with two edges.
13. I knowe thy workes and where thow dwellest evyn where Sathans seat ys and thou kepest my name and hast not denyed my fayth. And in my dayes Antipas was a faythfull witnes of myne which was slayne amonge you where sathan dwelleth.
14. But I have a fewe thynges agaynst the: yt thou hast there they that mayntayne the doctryne of Balam which taught in balake to put occasion of syn before the chylderne of Israhell that they shulde eate of meate dedicat vnto ydoles and to commyt fornicacion.
15. Even so hast thou them that mayntayne the doctryne of the Nicolaytans which thynge I hate.
16. But be converted or elles I will come vnto the shortly and will fyght agaynste the with thes wearde of my mouth
17. Lett him that hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacios: To him that overcommeth will I geve to eate manna that is hyd and will geve him a whyte stone and in the stone a newe name wrytten which no ma knoweth savinge he that receaveth it.
18. And vnto the messenger of the congregacion of Theatira write: This sayth the sonne of god which hath his eyes lyke vnto a flame of fyre whose fete are like brasse:
19. I knowe thy workes and thy love service and fayth and thy paciece and thy dedes which are mo at the last then at the fyrste.
20. Notwitstondinge I have a feawe thynges agaynst the that thou sofferest that woman Iesabell which called her sylfe a prophetes to teache and to deceave my servauntes to make them commyt fornicacion and to eate meates offered vppe vnto ydoles.
21. And I gave her space to repent of her fornicacion and she repented not.
22. Beholde I will caste her into a beed and them yt commyt fornicacion wt her into gret adversite excepte they tourne fro their deades.
23. And I will kyll her children with deeth. And all the congregacions shall knowe that I am he which searcheth ye reynes and hertes. And I will geve vnto evere one of you accordynge vnto youre workes.
24. Vnto you I saye and vnto other of them of Thiatyra as many as have not this lerninge and which have not knowen the depnes of Satha (as they saye) I will put apo you none other burthe
25. but yt which ye have alreddy. Holde fast tyll I come
26. and whosoever overcometh and kepeth my workes vnto the ende to hym will I geve power over nacios
27. and he shall rule them with a rodde of yron: and as the vessels of a potter shall he breake them to shevers. Eve as I receaved of my father
28. eue so will I geve him ye mornynge starre.
29. Let him yt hath eares heare what the sprete sayth to the congregacions.

== Revelation of John 3 ==
1. And wryte vnto the messenger of the congregacion of Sardis: this sayth he that hath the sprete of god and the vii. starres. I knowe thy workes thou haste a name that thou lvyest and thou art deed
2. Be awake and strength the thynges which remayne that are redy to dye. For I have not founde thy workes perfaycte before god.
3. Remember therfore how thou hast receaved and hearde and hold faste and repet. Yf thou shalt not watche I will come on ye as a thefe and thou shalt not knowe what houre I wyll come apon the
4. Thou haste a feawe names in Sardis which have not defyled their garmentes: and they shall walke with me in whyte for they are worthy
5. He that overcometh shalbe clothed in whyte araye and I will not put out his name out of the boke of lyfe and I will confesse his name before my father and before his angelles.
6. Let him that hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacions.
7. And wryte vnto ye tydinges bringer of ye cogregacio of Philadelphia: this sayth he yt is holy and true which hath ye keye of Dauid: which openyth and noma shutteth and shutteth and no ma openeth.
8. I knowe thy workes. Beholde I have set before the an open doore and no man can shut it for thou haste a lyttell strengthe and haste kept my sayinges: and haste not denyed my name.
9. Beholde I make them of the congregacion of Sathan which call them selves Iewes and are not but do lye: Beholde: I will make them that they shall come and worshippe before thy fete: and shall knowe that I love the.
10. Because thou hast kept ye wordes of my paciece therfore I will kepe ye fro the houre of teptacion which will come upo all ye worlde to tempte them yt dwell vpo the erth.
11. Beholde I come shortly. Holde that which thou haste that no man take awaye thy croune
12. Him that overcometh will I make a pyllar in the temple of my God and he shall goo no more oute. And I will wryt vpo him the name of my God and the name of ye cite of my god newe Ierusale which cometh doune oute of heve fro my God and I will wryte vpon him my newe name.
13. Let him that hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacions.
14. And vnto the messenger of ye congregacio which is in Laodicia wryte: This sayth (ame) the faythfull and true witnes ye begynninge of the creatures of God.
15. I knowe thy workes yt thou arte nether colde nor hot: I wolde thou were colde or hotte.
16. So then because thou arte bitwene bothe and nether colde ner hot I will spew ye oute of my mouth:
17. because thou sayst thou arte riche and incresyd wt goodes and haste nede of nothynge and knowest not howe thou arte wretched and miserable poore blinde and nakyd.
18. I counsell the to bye of me golde tryed in the fyre that thou mayste be riche and whyte raymet yt thou mayste be clothed yt thy fylthy nakednes do not apere: and anoynt thyne eyes with eye salve yt thou mayste se.
19. As many as I love I rebuke and chasten. Be fervent therfore and repet.
20. Beholde I stode at the doore and knocke. Yf eny man heare my voyce and opon the dore I will come in vnto him and will suppe with him and he with me.
21. To him that overcommeth will I graunte to sytt with me in my seate evyn as I overcam and have sytten with my father in his seate.
22. Lett him yt hath eares heare what the sprete sayth vnto the congregacions.

== Revelation of John 4 ==
1. After this I loked and beholde a dore was open in heven and the fyrste voyce which I harde was as it were of a trompet talkinge with me which said: come vp hydder and I will shewe the thynges which must be fulfyllyd hereafter
2. And immediatly I was in the sprete: and beholde a seate was put in heven and one sate on the seate.
3. And he that sat was to loke apo like vnto a iaspar stone and a sardyne stone: And there was a rayne bowe aboute the seate in syght lyke to an Emeralde.
4. And aboute the seate were.xxiiii. seates. And upon the seates.xxiiii. elders syttinge clothed in whyte rayment and had on their heddes crounes of gold.
5. And out of the seate proceded lightnynges and thundrynges and voyces and there wer vii. lampes of fyre burninge before ye seate which are the vii. sprettes of God.
6. And before the seate there was a see of glasse lyke vnto cristall and in the myddes of the seate and rounde aboute the seate were iiii. bestes full of eyes before and behynde.
7. And the fyrste best was lyke a lion the seconde best lyke a calfe and ye thyrde beste had a face as a man and the fourthe beste was like a flyinge egle.
8. And the iiii. bestes had eche one of them vi. wynges aboute him and they were full of eyes with in. And they had noo reste daye nether nyght sayinge: holy holy holy lorde god almyghty which was and is and is to come.
9. And when those beestes gave glory and honour and thankes to him that sat on the seate which lyveth for ever and ever:
10. the xxiiii. elders fell doune before him that sat on the trone and worshipped him that lyveth for ever and caste their crounes before the trone sayinge:
11. thou arte worthy lorde to receave glory and honoure and power for thou haste created all thinges and for thy wylles sake they are and were created.

== Revelation of John 5 ==
1. And I sawe in the right honde of him that sat in ye trone a boke written with in and on the backside sealyd with vii. seales.
2. And I sawe a stronge angell which cryed with a loude voyce: Who is worthy to open the boke and to loose the seales therof.
3. And no man in heven ner in erth nether vnder the erth was able to open the boke nether to loke thereon.
4. And I wepte moche because no man was founde worthy to open and to rede the boke nether to loke thereon.
5. And one of the elders sayde unto me: wepe not: Beholde a lion beinge of the tribe of Iuda the rote of Dauid hath obtayned to open the boke and to lose the vii. seales therof.
6. And I behelde and loo in the myddes of the seate and of the.iiii. bestes and in the myddes of the elders stode a lambe as though he had bene kylled which had vii. hornes and vii. eyes which are the spretes of God sent into all the worlde.
7. And he cam and toke the boke oute of the right honde of him that sate apon the seate.
8. And when he had take the boke the.iiii. bestes and xxiiii. elders fell doune before the labe havynge harpes and golden vialles full of odoures which are the prayers of saynctes
9. and they songe a newe songe saynge: thou art worthy to take ye boke and to ope ye seales therof: for thou waste kylled and haste redemed vs by thy bloud out of all kynreddes and tonges and people and nacions
10. and haste made vs vnto oure god kynges and prestes and we shall raygne on the erth.
11. And I behelde and I herd the voyce of many angylles aboute the trone and about the bestes and the elders and I herde thousand thousandes
12. saynge wt a lowde voyce: Worthy is the lambe that was killed to receave power and riches and wisdom and strenghte and honoure and glory and blyssynge.
13. And all creatures which are in heven and on the erth and vnder the erth and in the see and all that are in them herd I sayinge: blyssinge honour glory and power be vnto hym that sytteth apon the seate and vnto the lambe for ever more.
14. And the.iiii. bestes sayd: Ame. And the.xxiiii. elders fell apon their faces and worshypped him that lyveth for ever more.

== Revelation of John 6 ==
1. And I sawe when the lambe openyd one of the seales and I herde one of the iiii. bestes saye as it were the noyse of thonder come and se.
2. And I sawe and beholde there was a whyte horsse and he that sat on him had a bowe and a croune was gevyn vnto him and he went forth conqueringe and forto overcome.
3. And when he opened the secode seale I herde the seconde beste saye: come and se.
4. And there went out another horsse that was red and power was geven to him that satte thereon to take peace from the erth and that they shulde kyll one another. And there was geven vnto him a gret swearde.
5. And when he opened ye thyrde seale I herde the thyrde beste saye: come and se. And I behelde and loo a blacke hors: and he that sate on him had a payre of balances in his honde.
6. And I herd a voyce in the myddes of the.iiii. bestes saye: a measure of whete for a peny and iii. measures of barly for a peny: and oyle and wyne se thou hurte not.
7. And when he opened the fourthe seale I herde the voyce of the fourthe beste saye: come and se.
8. And I loked and beholde a grene horsse and his name that sat on him was deeth and hell folowed after him and power was geven vnto them over the fourthe parte of the erth to kyll with swearde and with honger and with deeth that cometh of vermen of the erth.
9. And when he opened the fyfte seale I sawe vnder the aultre the soules of them that were kylled for the worde of God and for the testymony which they had
10. and they cryed with a lowde voyce sayinge: How loge tariest thou lorde holy and true to iudge and to avenge oure bloud on them that dwell on the erth?
11. And longe whyte garmentes were geven vnto every one of them. And it was sayde vnto them that they shulde reste for a lyttle season vntyll the nomber of their felowes and brethre and of them that shulde be kylled as they were were fulfylled.
12. And I behelde when he opened the sixte seale and loo there was a grett erth quake and the sunne was as blacke as sacke clothe made of heare. And the mone wexed even as bloud:
13. and the starres of heven fell vnto the erth even as a fygge tree castith from her her fygges when she is shaken of a myghty wynde.
14. And heven vanysshed awaye as a scroll whe it is rolled togedder. And all mountayns and yles were moved oute of their places.
15. And the kynges of the erth and the gret men and the ryche men and the chefe captaynes and the myghty men and every bond man and every free man hyd them selves in dennes and in rockes of the hylles
16. and sayde to the hylles and rockes: fall on vs and hyde vs from the presence of him that sytteth on the seate and from the wrath of the lambe
17. for the grete daye of hys wrath ys come And who can endure it.

== Revelation of John 7 ==
1. And after that I sawe.iiii. angels stonde on the iiii. corners of ye erth holdynge ye iiii. wyndes of the erth that ye wyndes shulde not blowe on the erthe nether on the see nether on eny tree.
2. And I sawe another angell ascende from the rysynge of the sunne: which had the seale of the lyvynge god and he cryed with a loude voyce to the iiii angelles (to whom power was geven to hurt the erth and the see)
3. saying: Hurt not the erth nether the see nether the trees tyll we have sealed ye servauntes of oure god in their forheddes.
4. And I herde the nombre of them which were sealed and there were sealed an C. and xliiii. M. of all the trybes of the chyldren of Israhell.
5. Of the trybe of Iuda were sealed xii.M Of the trybe of Ruben were sealed xii.M. of the trybe of Gad were sealed xii.M.
6. Of the trybe of Asser were sealed xii.M. Of the trybe of Neptalym were sealed xii.M. Of the trybe of Manasses were sealed xii.M.
7. Of ye trybe of Symeo were sealed xii.M. Of ye tribe of Leuy were sealed xii.M. Of ye trybe of Isacar were sealed xii.M.
8. Of the trybe of zabulon weee sealed xii.M. Of the tribe of Ioseph were sealed xii.M. Of the trybe of Beniamin were sealed xii. thowsande.
9. After this I behelde and lo a gret multitude (which noma coulde nombre) of all nacios and people and tonges stode before the seate and before the lambe clothed with longe whyte garmentes and palmes in there hondes
10. and cryed with a lowde voyce sayinge: salvacion be asscribed to him that syttith apon the seate of oure god and vnto the lambe.
11. And all the angelles stode in the compase of the seate and of the elders and of the iiii. bestes and fel before the seat on their faces and worshipped god
12. sayinge amen: Blessynge and glory wisdome and thankes and honour and power and myght be vnto oure god for evermore Amen.
13. And one of the elders answered sayinge vnto me: what are these which are arayed in longe whyte garmentes and whence cam they?
14. And I sayde vnto him: lorde thou wottest. And he sayde vnto me: these are they which cam oute of gret tribulacion and made their garmetes large and made them whyte in the bloud of the lambe:
15. therfore are they in the presence of the seate of God and serve him daye and nyght in hys temple and he that sytteth in the seate wyll dwell amonge them.
16. They shalt honger no more nether thyrst nether shall the sunne lyght on them nether eny heate:
17. For the lambe which ys in the myddes of the seate shall fede them and shall ledde them vnto fountaynes of lyuynge water and god shall wype awaye all teares from their eyes.

== Revelation of John 8 ==
1. And when he had opened the seventh seale there was silence in heven aboute the space of halfe an houre.
2. And I sawe angelles stondynge before god and to them were geven vii. trompettes.
3. And another angell cam and stode before the aultre havynge a golden senser and moche of odoures was geven vnto him that he shulde offre of the prayers of all saynctes apon the golden aultre which was before ye seate.
4. And ye smoke of the odoures which came of ye prayers of all saynctes ascended vppe before god out of ye angelles honde.
5. And ye angell toke the senser and fylled it with fyre of the aultre and caste it into the erth and voyces were made and thondrynges and lightnynges and erthquake.
6. And the.vii. angells which had the.vii. tropettes prepared them selves to blowe.
7. The fyrst angell blewe and there was made hayle and fyre which were myngled with bloud and they were caste into ye erth: and the thryd parte of trees was burnt and all grene grasse was brent.
8. And ye seconde angell blewe: and as it were a gret mountayne: burnynge wt fyre was caste in to the see and the thyrde parte of the see tourned to bloud
9. and the thyrde parte of the creatures which had lyfe dyed and the thyrde part of shippes were destroyed.
10. And the thyrde angell blewe and ther fell a grett starre from heven burnynge as it were a lampe and it fell into the thyrde parte of the ryvers and into fountaynes of waters
11. and the name of the starre is called wormwod. And ye thyrde part was turned to wormwod. And many me dyed of the waters because they were made bytter.
12. And the fourth angell blew and the thyrde parte of the sunne was smytten and the thyrde parte of the mone and ye thyrde part of starres: so that the thyrde parte of them was darckned. And the daye was smytten that the thyrde part of it shulde not shyne and lyke wyse ye nyght.
13. And I behelde and herd an angell flyinge thorowe the myddes of heven sayinge with a lowde voyce: Woo wo to the inhabiters of the erth because of the voyces to come of the trompe of the.iii. angells which were yet to blowe.

== Revelation of John 9 ==
1. And the fyfte angell blewe and I sawe a stare fall from heven vnto the erth. And to him was geven the kaye of the bottomlesse pytt.
2. And he opened the botomlesse pytt and there arose the smoke of a grett fornace. And the sunne and the ayer were darkned by the reason of the smoke of the pytt.
3. And there cam out of the smoke locustes vpo the erth: and vnto them was geve power as the scorpions of the erth have power.
4. And it hurt ye grasse of the erth: nether eny grene thinge: nether eny tree: but only those me which have not ye seale in their forhedes
5. and to the was comaunded yt they shulde not kyll the but yt they shulde be vexed v monethes and their payne was as the payne yt cometh of a scorpion whe he hath stoge a ma.
6. And in those dayes shall men seke deeth and shall not fynde it and shall desyre to dye and deeth shall flye fro the.
7. And the similitude of the locustes was lyke vnto horses prepared vnto battayll and on their heddes were as it were crownes lyke vnto golde: and their faces were as it had bene the faces of men.
8. And they had heare as the heare of wemen. And their tethe were as the tethe of lyons.
9. And they had habbergions as it were habbergions of yron. And the sounde of their wynges was as the sounde of charettes when many horsses runne to gedder to battayle.
10. And they had tayles lyke vnto scorpions and there were stinges in their tayles. And their power was to hurt men v. monethes.
11. And they had a kynge over them which is the angell of the bottomlesse pytt whose name in the hebrew tonge is Abadon: but in the greke tonge Apollion.
12. One woo is past and beholde two wooes come after this.
13. And the sixte. angell blewe and I herd a voyce from the iiii. corners of the golden aultre which is before god
14. saying to the sixte angell which had the trompe: Loose the iiii. angelles which are bounde in the grett ryver Eufrates.
15. And the iiii. angelles were loosed which wer prepared for an houre for a daye for a moneth and for a yeare for to slee the thyrde part of me.
16. And the nombre of horsme of warre were twenty tymes xM. And I herde the nobre of them.
17. And thus I sawe the horses in a vision and them yt sate on the havynge fyry habbergions of a Iacyncte coloure and brymstony and the heeddes of ye horses werre as the heeddes of lyons. And out of their mouthes went forth fyre and smoke and brymstone.
18. And of these iii. was the thyrde parte of men kylled: that is to saye of fyre smoke and brymstone which proceded out of the mouthes of them:
19. For their power was in their mouthes and in their tayles: for their tayles were lyke vnto serpetes and had heedes and with them they dyd hurt:
20. And the remnaunt of the me which were not kylled by these plages repented not of the dedes of their hondes that they shulde not worshyppe devyls and ymages of golde and sylver and brasse and stone and of wood which nether can se nether heare nether goo.
21. Also they repented not of their murther and of their sorcery nether of their fornacion nether of their thefte.

== Revelation of John 10 ==
1. And I sawe another myghtye angell come doune from heven clothed with a cloude and the rayne bowe apon his heed. And hys face as it were the sunne and his fete as yt were pyllars of fyre
2. and he had in his honde a lytell boke opyn: and he put his ryght fote apon the see and his lyfte fote on the erth.
3. And cryed with a lowde voyce as when a lyon roreth. And when he had cryed seven thondres spake their voyces.
4. And whe the vii. thondres had spoken their voyces I was aboute to wryte. And I herde a voyce from heven sayinge vnto me seale vp thoo thynges which the vii. thondres spake and write them not.
5. And the angell which I sawe stonde apon the see and apon the erth lyfte vppe his honde to heven
6. and swore by him that liveth for ever more which created heven and the thynges that ther in are and the see and the thynges which therin are: that there shulde be no lenger tyme:
7. but in the dayes of the voyce of the seventh angell when he shall begyn to blowe: eve the mistery of god shalbe fynisshed as he preached by his servauntes ye prophetes.
8. And the voyce which I herde from heven spake vnto me agayne and sayde: goo and take the lytle boke which ys open in the honde of the angell which stondeth apon the see and apon the erth.
9. And I went vnto the angell and sayde to him: geve me the lytle boke and he sayd vnto me: take it and eate it vp and it shall make thy belly bytter but it shalbe in thy mouth as swete as hony.
10. and I toke the lytle boke out of his honde and ate it vp and it was in my mouth as swete as hony and as sone as I had eate it my belly was bytter.
11. And he sayde vnto me: thou muste prophesy agayne amonge the people and nacions and tonges and to many kynges.

== Revelation of John 11 ==
1. And then was geven me a rede lyke vnto a rodd and it was sayd vnto me: Ryse and mete the temple of god and the aultre and them that worshippe therin
2. and the quyre which is within the temple cast oute and mete it not: for it is gevyn vnto the gentyles and the holy cite shall they treade vnderfote.xlii. monethes.
3. And I will geve power vnto my two wytnesses and they shall prophesy.M.iic. and.lx. dayes clothed in sacke cloth.
4. These are two olyve trees and two cadlestyckes stodinge before ye god of ye erth
5. And if eny man will hurt them fyre shall procede out of their mouthes and consume their ennemyes. And yf eny ma will hurt the this wyse muste he be kylled.
6. These have power to shut heven that it rayne not in the dayes of their prophesyinge: and have power over waters to turne them to bloud and to smyte the erth wt almaner plages as often as they will.
7. And when they have fynysshed their testimony the beste that cam oute of the bottomlesse pytt shall make warre agaynst them and shall overcome them and kyll them.
8. And their boddyes shall lye in the stretes of the greate cite which spritually is called zodom and Egypte where oure lorde was crucified.
9. And they of the people and kynredes and tonges and they of the nacions shall se their bodyes.iii. dayes and an halfe and shall not suffre their boddyes to be put in graves.
10. And they that dwell apon the erth shall reioyce over them and be glad and shall send gyftes one to another for these two prophetes vexed them yt dwelt on the erth.
11. And after.iii. dayes and an halffe the sprete of lyfe from god entred into the. And they stode vp apo their fete: and greate feare came apon the which sawe them.
12. And they herde a greate voyce from heven saying vnto the. Come vp hidder. And they ascended vp into heven in a cloude and their ennemyes sawe the.
13. And ye same houre was ther a gret erth quake and the tenthe parte of the cite fell and in the erth quake were slayne names of men seven.M. and the remnaunt were feared and gave glory to god of heven.
14. The seconde woo is past and beholde ye thyrd woo wyll come ano
15. And the seventh angell blewe and therwere made great voyces in heve sayinge: the kyngdoms of this worlde are oure lordes and his christes and he shall raygne for ever more.
16. And the.xxiiii. elders which sytt before god on their seates fell apon their faces and worshipped God
17. sayinge: we geve the thankes lorde God allmyghte: which arte and wast and arte to come for thou haste receaved thy great myght and hast raygned.
18. And the nacions were angry and thy wrath is come and the tyme of ye deed that they shuld be iudged and that thou shuldest geve rewarde vnto thy servauntes the prophettes and saynctes and to them that feare thy name small and great and shuldest destroye them which destroye ye erth.
19. And the temple of God was openyd in heve and there was sene in his teple the arcke of his testamet: and ther folowed lyghtnynges and voyces and thondrynges and erth quake and moche hayle.

== Revelation of John 12 ==
1. And ther appered a gret wonder in heve A woman clothed with the sunne and the mone vnder her fete and apon her heed a croune of xii. starres.
2. And she was wt chylde and cryed travayllinge in byrth and payned redy to be delyvered.
3. And ther appered another wonder in heven for beholde a gret red drago havynge.vii. heddes and ten hornes and crounes vpo his heddes:
4. and his tayle drue the thyrde parte of the starres and cast them to the erth. And the dragon stode before the woman which was reddy to be delyvred: for to devoure her chylde as sone as it were borne.
5. And she brought forth a man chylde which shulde rule all nacions with a rode of yron And her sonne was taken vp vnto God and to his seate.
6. And the woman fleed into wyldernes where she had a place prepared of god that they shulde fede her there a M.ii.C and lx. dayes.
7. And ther was grett battayll in heven Michael and his angells fowght with the dragon and the dragon fowght and his angelles
8. and prevaylled not: nether was their place founde eny more in heven.
9. And the grett dragon that olde serpent called the devyll and Sathanas was cast out. Which desceaveth all the worlde. And he was cast into the erth and his angelles were cast out also.
10. And I harde a lowde voyce sayinge: in heve is nowe made salvacio and strengthe and ye kyngdome of oure God and the power of his Christ For he is cast doune which accused them before god daye and nyght.
11. And they overcame him by the bloude of the lambe and by the worde of their testimony and they loved not their lyves vnto the deeth.
12. Therfore reioyce hevens and ye that dwell in them. Woo to the inhabiters of the erth and of the see: for ye devyll is come doune vnto you which hath greet wrath because he knoweth that he hath but a short tyme.
13. And when the dragon sawe that he was caste vnto the erth he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man chylde.
14. And to the woman were geven two wynges of a great egle that she myght flye into the wyldrenes into her place where she is norysshed for a tyme tymes and halffe a tyme from the presence of the sarpent.
15. And the dragon cast out of his mouth water after the woman as it had bene a ryver because she hulde have bene caught of the floud.
16. And the erth holpe the woman and the erth opened her mouth and swalowed vp the rever which the dragon cast out of hys mouth.
17. And the dragon was wroth with the woman: and went and made warre with the remnaunt of hyr sede which kepe the commaundmentes of god and have the testimony of Iesus Christe. And I stode on the see sonde.

== Revelation of John 13 ==
1. And I sawe a best rise out of the see havinge vii. heddes and x. hornes and apon hys hornes x. crownes and apon his heed the name of blasphemy.
2. And the beast which I sawe was lyke a catt of the mountayne and his fete were as the fete of a bear and his mouth as the mouthe of a lyon. And the dragon gave him his power and his seate and grett auctorite:
3. and I sawe one of his heedes as it were wouded to deth and his dedly woude was healed. And all the worlde wondred at the beast
4. and they worshipped ye drago which gave power vnto the beest and they worshipped the beest sayinge: who is lyke vnto the beast? who is able to warre with him?
5. And ther was a mouth geve vnto him that spake great thinges and blasphemies and power was geve vnto him to do xlii. Monethes
6. And he opened his mowth vnto blasphemy agaynst God to blaspheme hys name and his tabernacle and them that dwell in heven.
7. And it was geven vnto him to make warre with the saynctes and to overcome them. And power was geven him over all kynred tonge and nacion:
8. and all that dwell apon the erth worshipt him: whose names are not written in the boke of lyfe of the lambe which was kylled from the begynnynge of the worlde.
9. Yf eny man have an eare lett him heare.
10. He that leadeth into captivite shall goo into captivite: he that kylleth with a swearde must be kylled with a swearde. Heare is the pacience and the fayth of the saynctes.
11. And I behelde another best commynge vp oute of the erth and he had two hornes like a lambe and he spake as dyd the dragon.
12. And he dyd all that the fyrste beest coulde do in his presence and he caused the erth and them which dwell therin to worshippe the fyrst beest whose dedly woude was healed.
13. And he dyd grett wonders so that he made fyre come doune from heven in the syght of men.
14. And deceaved them that dwelt on the erth by the meanes of those signes which he had power to doo in the sight of the beest sayinge to the that dwelt on the erth: that they shuld make an ymage vnto the beest which had the woude of a swearde and dyd lyve.
15. And he had power to geve a sprete vnto the ymage of the beest and that the ymage of the beest shuld speake and shuld cause that as many as wolde not worshyppe the ymage of the beest shuld be kylled.
16. And he made all bothe smale and grett ryche and poore fre and bond to receave a marke in their right hondes or in their forheddes.
17. And that no ma myght by or sell save he that had the marke or the name of the beest other the nombre of his name.
18. Here is wisdome. Let him that hath wytt count the nombre of the beest. For it is the nombre of a man and his nombre is sixe hondred threscore and sixe.

== Revelation of John 14 ==
1. And I loked and loo a lambe stode on the mount Syon and with him C. and xliiii. thousande havynge his fathers name written in their forhedes.
2. And I herde a voyce from heven as the sounde of many waters and as the voyce of a gret thoundre And I herde the voyce of harpers harpynge with their harpes.
3. And they songe as it were a newe songe before the seate and before the foure beestes and the elders and no man coulde learne that songe but the hondred and xliiii.M. which were redemed from the erth.
4. These are they which were not defyled with wemen for they are virgyns. These folowe the lambe whither soever he goeth. These were redemed from men beynge the fyrste frutes vnto God and to the lambe
5. and in their mouthes was foude no gyle. For they are with oute spott before the trone of god.
6. And I sawe an angell flye in the myddes of heven havynge an everlastynge gospell to preache vnto them that sytt and dwell on the erth and to all nacions kinreddes and tonges and people
7. sayinge with a lowde voyce: Feare God and geve honour to him for the houre of his iudgement is come: and worshyppe him that made heven and erth and the see and fountaynes of water.
8. And there folowed another angell sayinge: Babilon is fallen is fallen that gret cite for she made all nacions drynke of the wyne of hyr fornicacion.
9. And the thyrde angell folowed them sayinge with aloude voyce: Yf eny man worshippe the beest and his ymage and receave hie marke in his forhed or on his honde
10. the same shall drynke of the wyne of the wrath of God which is powred in the cuppe of his wrath. And he shalbe punnysshed in fyre and brymstone before the holy Angels and before the lambe.
11. And the smoke of their turment ascendeth vp evermore. And they have no rest daye ner nyght which worshippe ye beast and his ymage and whosoever receaveth the prynt of his name.
12. Here is the pacience of saynctes. Heare are they that kepe the commaundmentes and the fayth of Iesu.
13. And I herde a voyce from heven sayinge vnto me: wryte. Blessed are the deed which here after dye in the lorde even soo sayth the sprete: that they maye rest fro their laboures but their workes shall folowe them.
14. And I loked and beholde a whyte clowde and apon the clowde one syttynge lyke vnto the sonne of man havynge on his heed a golde crowne and in his honde a sharpe sykle.
15. And another angell came oute of the temple cryinge with a lowde voyce to him that sate on the clowde. Thruste in thy sycle and repe: for the tyme is come to repe for the corne of the erth is rype.
16. And he that sate on the clowde thrust in his sykle on the erth and the erth was reped.
17. And another angell came oute of the temple which is in heven havynge also a sharpe sycle.
18. And another angell came oute from yt aultre which had power over fyre and cryed with a lowde crye to him that had the sharpe sykle and sayde: thrust in thy sharpe sykle and gaddre the clusters of the erth for her grapes are rype.
19. And the angell thrust in his sykle on the erth and cut doune the grapes of the vyneyarde of the erth: and cast them into the gret wynefat of the wrath of god
20. and the wynefat was trodden with out the cite and bloud came oute of the fat eve vnto the hors brydles by the space of a thowsande and.vi.C. furlonges.

== Revelation of John 15 ==
1. And I sawe another signe in heve grett and mervellous.vii. angells havynge the seven laste plages for in the is fulfylled ye wrath of god.
2. And I sawe as it were a glassye see mingled with fyre and the that had gotten victory of the beest and of his ymage and of his marke and of the nombre of his name stode on the glassye see havinge ye harpes of god
3. and they songe the songe of Moses the servaunt of god and the songe of the lambe sayinge. Gret and marvellous are thy workes Lorde god almyghty iuste and true are thy wayes kynge of saynctes.
4. Who shall not feare o lorde and gloryfy thy name? For thou only arte holy and all gentylls shall come and worshippe before the for thy iudgmentes are made manyfeste.
5. And after that I loked and beholde ye temple of the tabernacle of testimony was opyn in heven
6. and the seven angelles cam out of the temple which had the seven plages clothed in pure and bryght lynnen and havynge their brestes gyrded with golden gerdelles.
7. And one of the fowre beestes gave vnto ye seve angells vii. golden vialles full of ye wrath of God which lyveth for ever more.
8. And the temple was full of the smoke of the glory of God and of his power and no man was able to entre into the temple tyll the seven plages of the seven angels were fulfilled.

== Revelation of John 16 ==
1. And I herde a great voyce out of ye temple sayinge to the seven angels: goo youre wayes poure out youre vialles of wrath apon the erth.
2. And the fyrst went and poured out his viall apo the erth and there fell anoysom and a sore botche apo the me which had the marke of the best and ap on the which worshipped his ymage.
3. And the seconde angell shed out his viall apon ye see and it turned as it were into the bloud of a deed ma: and every lyvinge thynge dyed in the see.
4. And ye thyrde angell shed out his vyall apon the ryvers and fountaynes of waters and they turned to bloud.
5. And I herde an angell saye: lorde which arte and wast thou arte ryghteous and holy because thou hast geve soche iudgmentes
6. for they shed out the bloude of sayntes and prophettes and therfore hast thou geven them bloud to drynke: for they are worthy.
7. And I herde another out of the aultre saye: even soo lorde god almyghty true and righteous are thy iudgementes.
8. And the fourth angell poured out his viall on the sunne and power was geve vnto him to vexe men with heate of fyre.
9. And the men raged in gret heate and spake evyll of the name of God which had power over those plages and they repented not to geve him glory.
10. And the fifte angell poured out his vyall apon the seate of the beste and his kyngdome wexed derke and they gnewe their tonges for sorowe
11. and blasphemed the god of heven for sorowe and payne of their sores and repented not of their dedes.
12. And the sixte angell poured out his vyall apon the gret ryver Euphrates and the water dryed vp that the wayes of the kyngss of the este shulde be prepared.
13. And I sawe thre vnclene sprettes lyke frogges come out of the mouthe of the dragon and out of the mouthe of the beeste and out of the mouthe of the falce prophett.
14. For they are the sprettes of devyls workynge myracles to go out vnto the kynges of the erth and of the whole worlde to gaddre them to the battayle of that gret daye of God allmyghty.
15. Beholde I come as a thefe. Happy is he that watcheth and kepeth his garmentes Lest he be founde naked and men se his filthynes.
16. And he gaddered them togedder into a place called in the hebrue tonge Armagedon.
17. And the seventhe angell poured out his viall in to the ayre. And there came a voyce out of heven from the seate sayinge: it is done.
18. And there folowed voyces thondringes and lightnynges and there was a grett erthquake soche as was not sence men were apon the erth so myghty an erthquake and so grett.
19. And the greate cite was devyded into thre parties And the cities of nacions fell. And grett Babilon came in remembraunce before God to geve vnto hyr the cuppe of wyne of the fearcenes of his wrathe.
20. Every yle fled awaye and the mountaynes were not founde.
21. And ther fell a gret hayle as it had bene talentes out of heven apon the men and the men blasphemed God be cause of the plage of the hayle for it was grett and the plage of it sore.

== Revelation of John 17 ==
1. And there cam one of the seven angels which had the seven vialles and talked with me sayinge vnto me: come I will shewe the the iudgment of the grett whore that sytteth apon many waters
2. with whome have commytted fornicacion the kynges of the erth so that the inhabiters of the erth are droken with the wyne of her fornicacion.
3. And he caryed me a waye into the wildernes in the sprete. And I sawe a woman sytt apon a rose colored best full of names of blaphemie which had ten hornes.
4. And the woman was arayed in purple and rose color and decked with golde precious stone and pearles and had a cup of golde in her honde full of a hominacions and fylthynes of her fornycacion.
5. And in her forhed was a name wrytten a mistery gret Babylon the mother of whordome and abominacions of the erth.
6. And I sawe the wyfe dronke with the bloud of saynctes and with the bloud of the witnesses of Iesu. And when I sawe her I wondred with grett mervayle.
7. And the angell sayde vnto me: wherfore mervayllyst thou? I wyll shewe the ye mistery of the woman and of the best that berith her which hath seven heddes and ten hornes.
8. The best that thou seest was and is not and shall ascende out of the bottomlesse pytt and shall goo into perdicion and they that dwell on the erth shall wondre (whose names are not wrytten in the boke of lyfe from ye begynnynge of the worlde) when they beholde the best that was and ys nott.
9. And here ys a mynde that hath wisdome. The seven heddes are seven mountaynes on which the woman sytteth:
10. they are also seven kynges. Fyve are fallen and on ys and onother is not yet come. Whe he cometh he muste contynew a space.
11. And the beste that was and ys not is even the ayght and ys one of the seven and shall goo into destruccion.
12. And the ten hornes which thou seist are ten kynges which have receaved no kyngdome but shall receave power as kynges at one houre with the beest.
13. These have one mynde and shall geve their power and strenghte vnto ye beste.
14. These shall fyght with the lambe and the lambe shall overcome them: For he is lorde of lordes and kynge of kynges: and they that are on hys syde are called and chosen and faythfull.
15. And he sayde vnto me: the waters which thou sawest where the whore syttith are people and folke and nacions and tonges.
16. And the ten hornes which thou sawest apon the best are they that shall hate the whore and shall make her desolate and naked and shall eate their flesshe and burne her with fyre.
17. For God hathe put in their hertes to fulfyll hys wyll and to do with one consent for to geve hir kyngdom vnto the beast vntill the wordes of God be fulfylled.
18. And the woman which thou sawest ys that gret cyte which raigneth over the kynges of the erth.

== Revelation of John 18 ==
1. And after that I sawe another angell come from heven havinge gret power and the erth was lyghtned with hys bryghtnes.
2. And he cryed myghtyly with a stronge voyce sayinge: Great Babilon is fallen ys fallen and ys become the habitation of devels and the holde of all fowle sprettes and a cage of all vnclene and hatefull byrdes
3. for all nacions have dronken of the wyne of the wrath of her fornycacion. And the kynges of the erth have committed fornicacion with her and her marchauntes are wexed ryche of the abundance of her pleasures.
4. And I herde another voyce from heven saye: come a waye from her my people that ye be not parttakers in her synnes that ye receave not of her plages.
5. For her synnes are gon vp to heven and God hath remembred her wyckednes.
6. Rewarde her even as she rewarded you and geve her dubble accordynge to her workes. And poure in dubble to her in the same cuppe which she fylled vnto you.
7. And as moche as she gloryfied her silfe and lyved wantanly so moche poure ye in for her of punysshment and sorowe for she sayde in her herte: I sytt beinge a quene and am no wyddowe and shall se no sorowe.
8. Therfore shall her plages come at one daye deeth and sorowe and honger and she shallbe brent with fyre: for stronge ys the lorde god which iudgeth her.
9. And the kynges of the erth shalbe wepe her and wayle over her which have committed fornicacion with her and have lyved wantanly with her when they shall se the smoke of her burnynge
10. and shall stonde a farre of for feare of her punnysshment sayinge: Alas Alas that gret cite Babilon that myghty cite: For at won houre is her iudgment come.
11. And the marchauntes of the erth shall wepe and wayle in them selves for no man wyll bye their ware eny more
12. the ware of golde and silver and precious stones nether of pearle and raynes and purple and skarlet and all thyne wodde and almanner vessels of yvery and almanner vessels of most precious wodde and of brasse and of yron
13. and synamon and odours and oyntmentes and frankynsence and wyne and oyle and fyne floure and wheate bestes and shepe and horsys and charrettes and boddyes and soules of men.
14. And the apples that thy soule lusted after are departed fro the. And all thynges which were deyntie and had in pryce ar departed fro the and thou shalt fynde them no more.
15. The marchauntes of these thynges which were wexed ryche shall stonde a farre of from her for feare of the punyshment of her wepynge and waylynge
16. and saying: alas alas that grett cite that was clothed in raynes and purple and scarlett and decked with golde and precious stone and pearles:
17. for at one houre so great ryches ys come to nought And every shippe governer and all they that occupied shippes and shippmen which worke in the see stode a farre of
18. and cryed when they sawe the smoke of her burnynge sayinge what cite is lyke vnto this grett cite?
19. And they cast dust on their heddes and cryed wepynge and waylinge and sayed: Alas Alas yt greate cite wherin were made ryche all that had shyppes in the see by the reason of her costlynes for atone houre is she made desolate
20. Reioyce over her thou heven and ye holy Apostles and prophetes: for god hath geven youre iudgment on her.
21. And a myghty angell toke vp a stone lyke a grett mylstone and cast it into the see sayinge: with suche violence shall that gret cite Babilon be cast and shallbe founde no more.
22. And the voyce of harpers and musicions and of pypers and trompetters shalbe herde no more in the: and no craftes man of whatsoever craft he be shalbe founde eny more in the. and the soude of a myll shalbe herde no more in the
23. and the voyce of the brydegrome and of the bryde shalbe herde no more in the: for thy marchauntes were ye grett men of ye erth. And with thyne inchantment were deceaved all nacions:
24. and in her was founde the bloude of the prophettes and of ye saynctes and of all that were slayne apon ye erth.

== Revelation of John 19 ==
1. And after yt I herde ye voyce of moche people in heven sayinge: Alleluia. Saluacion and glory and honour and power be ascribed to ye lorde oure god
2. for true and ryghteous are his iudgmentes for he hath iudged ye grett whore which did corrupt the erth with her fornicacion and hath avenged the bloud of his servauntes of her hond.
3. And agayne they said: Alleluya. And smoke rose vp for evermore.
4. And the xxiiii. elders and the iiii. bestes fell doune and worshypped god that sate on the seate sayinge: Amen Alleluya.
5. And a voyce cam out of the seate saying: prayse oure lorde god all ye that are his servauntes and ye that feare him both small and grett.
6. And I herde the voyce of moche people eve as the voyce of many waters and as the voyce of stronge thondrynges sayinge: Alleluya for god omnipotent raigneth.
7. Let vs be glad and reioyce and geve honour to him: for the mariage of the lambe is come and hys wyffe made her sylfe reddy.
8. And to her was graunted that she shulde be arayed with pure and goodly raynes. For the raynes is the ryghtewesnes of saynctes.
9. And he sayde vnto me: happy are they which are called vnto the Labes supper. And he sayde vnto me: these are the true sayinges of God.
10. And I fell at his fete to worshyppe him. And he sayde vnto me se thou do it not. For I am thy felowe seruaunt and one of thy brethern and of them that have the testimony of Iesus. Worshyppe God. For the testymony of Iesus ys the sprete of prophesy.
11. And I sawe heven open and beholde a whyte horsse: and he that sat apon him was faythfull and true and in ryghtewesnes dyd iudge and make battayle.
12. His eyes were as a flame of fyre: and on his heed were many crounes: and he had a name written yt noman knewe but him sylfe.
13. And he was clothed with a vesture dipt in bloud and and hys name ys called the worde of God.
14. And the warriers which were in heven folowed him apon whyte horsses clothed with whyte and pure raynes:
15. and out of his mouthe went out a sharppe swerde that with yt he shuld smyte the hethen. And he shall rule them with a rodde of yron and he trode the wynefatt of fearsnes and wrath of almyghty god.
16. And hath on his vesture and on his thygh a name written: kynge of kynges and lorde of lordes.
17. And I sawe an angell stonde in the sunne and he cryed with a lowde voyce sayinge to all the fowles that flye by ye myddes of heve come and gaddre youre selves to gedder vnto the supper of the gret god
18. that ye maye eate the flesshe of kynges and of hye captaynes and the flesshe of myghty men and the flesshe of horsses and of them that sytt on them and the flesshe of all free men and bond men and of small and gret.
19. And I sawe the beste and the kynges of the erth and their warriers gaddred to gedder to make battayle agaynste him that satt on the horsse and agaynst his sowdiers.
20. And the beste was take and with him that falce prophett that wrought myracles before him with which he desceaved the that receaved ye beestes marke and them that worshipped his ymage. These both were cast into a pode of fyre burnyge with brymstone:
21. and ye remnaunte were slayne with ye swearde of him that sat apon the horsse which swearde proceded out of his mouthe and all the foules were fulfilled with their flesshe.

== Revelation of John 20 ==
1. And I sawe an angell come doune from heven havinge the kaye of the bottomlesse pyt and a gret chayne in his honde.
2. And he toke the drago that olde serpet which is the devyll and Satanas and he bounde him a thousand yeares:
3. and cast him into the bottomlesse pit and he bounde him and set a seale on him yt he shuld desceaue the people no moare tyll the.M. yeares were fulfilled. And after yt he muste be loosed for a litell season.
4. And I sawe seattes and they sat apon them and iudgement was geven vnto them: and I sawe the soules of them that were behedded for the witnes of Iesu and for the worde of God: which had not worshypped the best nether his ymage nether had taken his marke vpon their forheddes or on their hondes: and they lyved and raygned with Christ a.M. yere:
5. but the wother of the deed men lyved not agayne vntyll the.M. yere were fynisshed. This is that fyrst resurreccion.
6. Blessed and holy is he that hath parte in the fyrst resurreccion. For on suche shall the seconde deeth have no power for they shalbe the prestes of God and of Christ and shall raygne with him a.M. yere.
7. And when the.M. yeares are experied Satan shalbe lowsed out of his preson
8. and shall goo oute to deceave the people which are in the foure quarters of the erth Gog and Magog to gadder them to gedder to batayle whose nombre is as the sonde of the see:
9. and they went vp on the playne of the erth and compased the tentes of the saynctes about and the beloved cite. And fyre cam doune from God out of heven and devoured them:
10. and the devyll that desceaved them was cast into a lake of fyre and brymstone where the beest and the falce prophet were and shalbe tormented daye and nyght for ever more.
11. And I sawe a grett whyte seate and him that sate on it from whose face fleed awaye both the erth and heave and their place was no more founde.
12. And I sawe the deed both grett and small stonde before God: And the bokes were opened and another boke was opened which is the boke of lyfe and the deed were iudged of thoo thynges which weer wrytten in the bokes accordinge to their dedes:
13. and the see gave vp her deed which were in her and deth and hell delyvered vp the deed which were in them: and they were iudged every man accordinge to his dedes.
14. And deth and hell were cast into the lake of fyre. This is that second deeth.
15. And whosoever was not founde written in the boke of lyfe was cast into the lake of fyre.

== Revelation of John 21 ==
1. And I sawe a newe heven and a newe erth For the fyrst heven and the fyrst erth were vanysshed awaye and there was no more see.
2. And I Iho sawe that holy cite newe Ierusalem come doune from God oute of heven prepared as a bryde garnysshed for hyr husband.
3. And I herde a grett voyce out of heaven sayinge: beholde the tabernacle of God is with men and he will dwell with the And they shalbe his people and God him sylffe shalbe with the and be their god.
4. And God shall wype awaye all teares fro their eyes. And there shalbe nomore deeth nether sorowe nether cryinge nether shall there be eny more payne for the olde thynges are gone.
5. And he that sate apon the seate sayde: Behold I make all thynges newe. And he sayde vnto me: wryte for these wordes are faythfull and true.
6. And he sayde vnto me: it is done I am Alpha and Omega the begynnynge and the ende. I will geve to him yt is a thyrst of the well of the water of lyfe fre.
7. He that overcometh shall inheret all thynges and I will be his God and he shalbe my sonne.
8. But the fearefull and vnbelevynge and the abhominable and murdrers and whormongers and sorcerers and ydolaters and all lyars shall have their parte in the lake which burnyth with fyre and brymstone which is the seconde deth.
9. And there cam vnto me one of the vii. angels which had the vii. vyals full of the vii. laste plages: and talked with me sayinge: come hydder I will shewe the the bryde the lambes wyfe.
10. And he caryed me awaye in the sprete to a grett and an hye mountayne and he shewed me the grett cite holy Ierusalem descendinge out of heven fro God
11. havynge the brightnes of God. And her shynynge was lyke vnto a stone moste precious even a Iaspar cleare as cristall:
12. and had walles grett and hye and had xii gates and at the gates xii. angels: and names written which are the xii. trybes of Israell:
13. on the est parte iii gatis and on the north syde iii gates and to wardes the south iii gates and from the west iii gates:
14. and the wall of the cite had xii foundacions and in them the names of the lambes.xii. Apostles.
15. And he that talked with me had a golden read to measure the cite with all and the gates therof and the wall therof.
16. And the cite was bylt iiii. square and the length was as large as the bredth of it and he measured the cite with the rede.xii M. fur longes: and the lenght and the bredth and ye heyth of it were equall.
17. And he measured the wall therof. an cxliiii. cubittes: the measure that ye angell had was after the measure that man vseth.
18. And the byldinge of the wall of it was of iaspar. And the cite was pure gold lyke vnto cleare glasse
19. and the foundacions of the wall of ye cite was garnisshed with all maner of precious stones The fyrste foundacion was iaspar the seconde saphyre the thyrde a calcedony the fourth an emeralde:
20. the fyft sardonix: the sixt sardeos: the seventh crysolite the ayght berall: the nynth a topas: the tenth a crysoprasos: the eleventh a iacyncte: the twelfe an amatist.
21. The xii. gates were xii pearles every gate was of one pearle and the strete of the cite was pure golde as thorowe shynynge glasse.
22. And there was no temple therin. For the lord god allmyghty and the lambe are the temple of it
23. and the cite hath no nede of the sonne nether of the mone to lyghten it. For the bryghtnes of God dyd light it: and the lambe was the light of it.
24. And the people which are saved shall walke in the light of it: and the kynges of the erth shall brynge their glory vnto it.
25. And ye gates of it are not shut by daye. For there shalbe no nyght there.
26. And there shall entre into it none vnclene thynge: nether what soever worketh abhominacion: or maketh lyes: but they only which are wrytten in the lambes boke of lyfe.
27. 

== Revelation of John 22 ==
1. And he shewed me a pure ryver of water of lyfe clere as cristall: procedynge oute of the seate of God and of the lambe.
2. In the myddes of the strete of it and of ether syde of ye ryver was there wode of lyfe: which bare xii maner of frutes: and gave frute every moneth: and the leves of the wodde served to heale the people with all.
3. And there shalbe no more cursse but the seate of god and the lambe shalbe in it: and his servauntes shall serve him:
4. And shall se his face and his name shalbe in their forheddes.
5. And there shall be no nyght there and they nede no candle nether light of the sunne: for the lorde God geveth them light and they shall raygne for evermore.
6. And he sayde vnto me: these sayinges are faythfull and true. And the lorde god of saynctes and prophetes sent his angell to shewe vnto his servauntes the thynges which muste shortly be fulfylled.
7. Beholde I come shortly. Happy is he that kepeth the sayinge of ye prophesy of this boke.
8. I am Ihon which sawe these thynges and herde them. And when I had herde and sene I fell doune to worshippe before the fete of the angell which shewed me these thynges.
9. And he sayd vnto me: se thou do it not for I am thy feloweservaunt and the feloweservaunt of thy brethren the prophettes and of them which kepe the sayinges of this boke. But worshippe God.
10. And he sayde vnto me: seale not the sayinges of prophesy of this boke. For the tyme is at honde.
11. He that doeth evyl let him do evyl still: and he which is fylthy let him be fylthy still: and he that is righteous let him be more righteous: and he that is holy let him be more holy.
12. And beholde I come shortly and my rewarde with me to geve every man accordinge as his dedes shalbe.
13. I am Alpha and Omega the begynninge and the ende: the fyrst and the last.
14. Blessed are they that do hys commaundmentes that their power maye be in the tree of lyfe and maye entre in thorow the gates into the cite.
15. For without shalbe dogges and inchauters and whormongers and mortherers and ydolaters and whosoever loveth or makith lesynges.
16. I Iesus sent myne angell to testyfye vnto you these thynges in the congregacions. I am the rote and the generacion of David and the bright mornynge starre.
17. And the sprete and the bryde sayde come. And let him that heareth saye also come. And let him that is athyrst come. And let whosoever wyll take of the water of lyfe fre.
18. I testifye vnto every man that heareth the wordes of prophesy of thys boke. yf eny man shall adde vnto these thynges god shall adde vnto him the plages that are wrytten in this boke.
19. And yf eny man shall mynyshe of the wordes of ye boke of this prophesy god shall take a waye his parte out of the boke of lyfe and oute of ye holy citie and fro thoo thynge which are written in this boke.
20. He which testifyeth these thinges sayth: be it I come quyckly Amen. Even soo: come lorde Iesu.
21. The grace of oure lorde Iesu Christ be with you all. Amen.

